82 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

unnecessary for them to make their leys in the ordinary way,
it may be advisable, perhaps, that they should once more
take the cold process into consideration. Although soaps
made by this process retain more alkali than those made
by the ordinary methods of boiling, and. would, therefore,
be less suitable for toilet purposes, it is certain that good
household, or laundry soaps, if carefully prepared, could
be advantageously made by this system.

For making small quantities of Soap by the cold pro-
cess, the ley should have a density of about 36° B. This
may he obtained either by evaporating strong new caustic
ley prepared in the ordinary way, or by dissolving com-
mercial caustic soda in water until the required strength
is reached.

To prepare a White Soap.—Put into a pan, capable of
holding about 100 gallons, tallow, lard, or bleached palm-
oil, 120 Ibs.; cocoa-nut oil, 40 Ibs.; apply gentle heat,
with occasional stirring, until all the fatty matter is melted.
‘When the liquid grease has attained the heat of
about 120° Fahr., add, gradually, 80 lbs. of ley at 36° B.,
and stir well until a complete union of the fatty matters
and alkali is effected. The temperature of the ingredients,
at the time of adding the alkali, must not be higher than
122° Fahr., otherwise there will be a separation of
the ley from the fatty materials. Ifthe stirring has been
diligently pursued, the saponification will be complete in
about two hours, and the soap is then ready for the frame. If
it is desired to perfume the soap, this should be done while
it is in the pan, and before it has had time to cool. It is
not a good plan, when making small quantities of soap, to
add the perfume after the soap is in the frame, since it is
then more difficult to effect a perfect incorporation of the
respective materials.

When soap made by the cold process has been in the
frame for about five hours, a considerable augmentation of
its temperature takes place, owing to the chemical reaction
of its constituents, whereby a more perfect combination is
effected. In order to favour this reaction, the frame,
should be closely covered so soon as it has been filled with!
