54 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

from the commencement of the boiling, the fire is kept
well up, but afterwards it should be moderated. After the
usual frothing, it should be ascertained whether the fat
has combined with the ley. This is known by the yellow-
brown mass, which, under gradual upheaving, continues
quietly to boil. “What adheres to the spatula, when dipped
into the mass and withdrawn, has a gelatinous, greyish
white appearance, without separation of ley. When the
ley and fat are not combined, the mixture moves in the
kettle to and fro without rising upward, except now and
then, in isolated spots, with a booming noise. When the
combination is complete, there are added, at short intervals,
and in four or five portions, about 1,000 lbs. of ley at 16°
to17°B. The boiling now becomes dense and languid,
and the mass appears of a yellowish-brown, and runs off
the spatula in cohesive, long, translucent strings, and the
soap boils to a paste. If some of the soap be dropped on
glass, and the sample, while still hot, does not appear per-
ectly clear, ley is still wanting. A small quantity of ley
should now be added, until the soap, while hot, appears
perfectly clear. When this period is reached, the ‘cutting
of the pan” begins.

The salt has here a double purpose to fulfil. It must
transform the potash into a soda soap, and also separate
its glycerine, sulphurous liquor, ley, and impurities. The
full quantity of salt required for this purpose is not
applied at once, but a repeated “salting out”’ should be
given. After each “salting out,” the under ley is sepa-
rated from the soap, and the latter brought in contact
with water and salt. By boiling tallow and potash, when
the materials are not very pure, the “salting out” is
usually performed in three operations. The ley is now
removed from the soap in the usual way. The salt is
either thrown into the soap in the dry state, or in solution
of about 20° B. When the mass turns white, and ebulli-
tion occurs all over the pan in patches, the soap rising
with considerable vigour, it is known that sufficient salt
has been added. The frothing now disappears. The
boiling is continued for an hour longer, and then stopped
