MANUFACTURE OF HARD SOAPS. 75

which the steam is turned off, or the fire drawn, as the
case may be.

When the manufacture of the soap is complete, it has
the consistence and tenacity, or “closeness” of melted
glue. It is now allowed to cool down, and is afterwards
cleansed or framed in the usual way. The potash ley isem-
ployed with the soda ley only for the finer qualities of soap.

To make Yellow Soap with Cocoa-oil, by the above
process, these proportions are given: -1,072 lbs. of cocoa-
nut oil; 112 lbs. of raw palm-oil; 336 Ibs. of bleached
palm-oil; 448 lbs. of tallow; 224 lbs. of resin; 112 Ibs.
of common salt, and 450 gallons of soda ley at 23° B.
All the fatty matters and the resin are first put into the
copper, heat applied as usual, and the whole operation
conducted in the same way as already described.

There have been numerous modifications of Sturtevant’s
process for manufacturing soaps with cocoa-nut oil as an
ingredient; and, indeed, this useful vegetable product is
very extensively used by most soap-makers both at home
and abroad, but more especially in this country, where it
is employed in enormous quantities. As we have said,
however, cocoa-nut oil, unless blended with some other
fatty material, does not make a good soap. Tallow or
palm-oil, therefore, are employed, in variable proportions,
in combination with it, in the manufacture of certain
soaps, and it is also the practice to use potash as well as
soda leys in making soaps containing cocoa-nut oil. Soap
made from this oil being soluble in weak leys and saline
solutions, requires a much larger proportion of salt in the
process of separation.

The proportions of tallow or palm-oil which may be
successfully employed with cocoa-nut oil for a genuine—
that is, not a reduced, or “liquored” soap—should be
60 parts cocoa-nut oil and 40 parts tallow; or equal parts
palm and cocoa-nut oils. For the latter combination, an
equal volume of caustic soda ley at 27° B. and a third of
a volume of caustic potash ley at 10° B. are used with the
boiling until perfect combination takes place. A small
