SAPONIFICATION EXPLAINED. . 1
and oxide of glyceryl, a large quantity of salt is gradually
added to the boiling mass, on each addition waiting until
it isdissolved. The first addition increases the consistency
of the mass, while each successive portion renders it more
fluid, till it loses its threading character, and drops from
the spatula in short, thick lumps. As soon as the conge-
lation is complete—that is, when the: gelatinous floccule
separate froma clear watery liquid—the fire is extinguished,
the soap allowed to collect on the surface, and cooled either
on the liquid or Jadled out and allowed to solidify. In
the former case it is impure from water, free alkalies,
or other impurities of the ley, and is therefore unfit for
the market, although sufficiently good for domestic use.
As in other chemical operations a precipitate is purified
by boiling it ina fluid in which it is not soluble, so is
soap purified by a solution of salt rendered. alkaline.

“When the saponified fluid is made with potassa, the
salt (chloride of sodium) operates in a two-fold manner: it-
dissolves in the pasty liquid and decomposes, forming on
the one hand chloride of potassium, and on the other soda
soap. When potash ley is employed in soap-making, the
first salting requires more than twice the quantity of
salt. In the preparation of potash soaps, a concentrated
potassa ley is employed for separating the soap. The
saponification of fats is not completed by the first treat-
ment with leys, and the subsequent addition of fresh
leys, besides purifying, also renders saponification more
perfect.” .

It must be obvious, on perusing the above remarks of
the great German chemist, that the first duty of the soap-
maker is to make himself thoroughly conversant with the
principles of saponification, and not to rely solely upon *
his own observation. The soap-boiler, be he ever so skil-
ful and observant—and there are many such—should avail
himself of such important information as is conveyed in
the above lucid and practical observations.

It will be seen that the combination of alkali with fatty
matter is not by any means a rapid process, but is the
result of slow and gradual chemical action, during which
