VARIOUS PROCESSES. 125

caustic ley to prevent decomposition until they are to be
used. The ley is then heated until entire saponification
takes place, which operation is easy, and a very slightly-
coloured grey soap is obtained. If required to be whitened,
a solution of chloride of soda (see page 112) is poured into
the pan, after which common salt is added to produce
separation.

“ Villart’s Process has for its object the conversion of
animal matters in general into soap, but more especially
the residuum of meat, scrapings of tallows (query, suets),
intestines, &c. From these two kinds of soap are obtained.
the first of a greenish-white colour, not very firm, and
having a disagreeable odour ; the second is similar to the
above, but with the addition of resin and tallow, properly
saponified and mixed with the ‘animal soap.’ The pro-
cess is divided into four operations :—

“1, Maceration, The substances are placed in wooden
tubs capable of holding about 300 or 400 Ibs., when a ley
composed as follows is poured over them :—Lime, 10 parts ;
soda ash, 12 parts; water, 100 parts. The lime is first
slaked and the soda ash dissolved in water, and this is
then poured on the lime, with stirring, and the mixture
then poured over the animal substances, the whole being
allowed to remain in this condition for some time, but
with occasional stirring.

“2. Washing. When the saponification (by macera-
tion) has been effected, the animal substances are washed
in tubs, to remove the lime attached to them, after which
they are exposed to the action of the air.

“3. Solution. After sufficient exposure to the air, the
animal substances are placed in a pan, with a sufficient
quantity of water, and for every pound of them add
12 gallons of ley at 4° prepared as follows :—Soda ash,
1 lb.; lime, 1 Ib.; water, 6 Ibs. This ley marks 15°, and
has always succeeded ; however, weaker or stronger leys
may be used, that is from 20° to 30°, and gives a good
result.

“The animal matters being completely dissolved, the
solution is to be poured off from the lime, and the solu-
