MANUFACTURE OF HARD SOAPS. 37

careful experiments, made at Marseilles, it was found that
the following were the proper proportions of caustic soda
and oil for making this kind of soap. Each 100 lbs.
of olive oil require fifty-four pounds of caustic soda ley
of 36° Baumé for perfect saponification, and this amount
of ley represents about 15°50 of solid caustic soda—
the utmost amount that must be applied to each 100
lbs. of the oil used. Since this oil, however, varies in
the proportion of solid matter (margarine) which it con-
tains, the strength of the ley employed in the first opera-
tion of boiling must be regulated accordingly. Fora thin
oil (or one containing a low percentage of solid matter) the
ley is reduced by water until a Baumé’s hydrometer float-
ing in it marks 10° to 11° (degrees), For an oil containing
a much larger percentage of solid matter (as lard oil, lard,
or other solid fat) the strength of ley should be about
8 or 9° B.

First operation—The requisite quantity of ley (in the
proportions above given) is to be first run into the pan,
filling it to the extent of about one-third of its capacity.
Heat is then applied by fire or steam, as the case may be,
and when the liquor comes to a boil, 1,600 Ibs. of oil are
added at one time with constant stirring. In a very short
time a thick mass of a pasty consistence is formed by the
reaction of the hot caustic alkali upon the oil. If from
miscalculation, or other circumstance, an excess of oil has
been added, this excess will show itself upon the surface,
when an additional quantity of ley must be at once applied.
On the other hand, if, instead of forming into a thickish
paste the mixture is very thin, this indicates an excess of
ley, and more oil must be added by degrees. This addition
will, of course, somewhat cool the mixture, but the tempera-
ture soon rises again, and the mass again boils with con-
siderable frothing. The boiling must be kept up for
eighteen or twenty hours.

During the boiling, considerable evaporation takes place,
whereby the ley becomes stronger ; it is therefore necessary,
when the pasty condition becomes thick, to add weak ley
from time to time, since the paste is not soluble in strong
