MANUFACTURE OF SOFT SOAPS. 137

in the usual way. The soap is then allowed to repose,
when the deposited ley is to be withdrawn, and the cocoa-
nut oil in a melted state is then introduced, and a sufficient
quantity of ley added to render the soap caustic. Boiling
must be continued until the soap is sufficiently firm, and
when this condition is reached the fire is withdrawn and
the soap allowed to cool down, ‘after which itis to be trans-
ferred to shallow frames. By the separation of the ley
which takes place in the above process, the saline
impurities contained in the potash are removed. About
12 ewt. of soap should result from the proportions given.

Russian Soft Soap—tIn Russia a soft soap is made
from a ley composed of three parts Russian or American
potash, and one part pearlash (a carbonate of potash), the
solution or ley being brought to 10° B. One half of the
ley is added to the oils or fatty matters in the pan, and
while these are undergoing the process of boiling the
remainder of the ley is allowed to flow slowly into the pan
from a cistern situated above that vessel. After the
necessary boiling, and when the soap has acquired the
proper consistence, the fire is withdrawn and the soap left
in the pan to cool.

Gentele’s Process.—A process was suggested by M.
Gentele for making soft soap with one-fifth part of soda
mixed with the potash ley. By preference, crystals of
soda are used ; and it is important that the leys should be
free from chloride of sodium or other saline impurities.
The fatty materials recommended for this process are:
red oil, 100 Ibs. ; tallow,°40 lbs. ; hempseed-oil, 3,750 Ibs.

Jacobson’s Process.—The inventor prepares a very use-
ful household soap by mixing oleic acid with soda or potash
ley in the following proportions :—

Distilled oleine 2 gallons.
Li

Da gallon.
5 gallons.

While pouring the hot water into the pan (in which the
oleine is first placed) constant stirring is kept up, and the
ley then added gradually with continued agitation, until

 

 
