RECOVERY OF THE GLYCERINE. 217

The precipitate which is thus formed is separated by
filtration, or is allowed to settle. The remaining liquid
consists chiefly of raw or impure glycerine and chloride
of sodium. The solution should be warmed, as experience
shows that heat facilitates the formation and separation of
the precipitate. In some instances the solution may be
found to be slightly acid ; if so, it must be neutralised by
the addition of milk of lime. The clear liquor, which is
a mixture of glycerine and spent ley, is next heated to
expel the water, thereby concentrating the mixture and
removing from the same a large quantity of the salts,
which will crystallise out during the process of evapora-
tion. For this purpose heated air, superheated steam, or
the direct heat of the fire may be mployed.

By this process a concentrated solution of glycerine is
obtained containing about 10 per cont. of salt, and the
glycerine may be separated by distillation and refined in
the usual way. Tho inventor says that “the glycerine
obtained by this process may be more easily retined by
distillation than that obtained by any known process.”

Versmann’s Process.—The object of this invention is
the recovery of glycerine from soap leys, and its more or
less complete separation from chloride of sodium, carbo-
nate of soda, and caustic soda. A large percentage of
theso salts is separated by simply boiling down the soap
ley and raking out the salts as they become insoluble.
The concentrated solution is then allowed to cool, after
which carbonic acid gas is passed through it until the
whole of the carbonate and caustic soda is converted into
bicarbonate of soda, which being much less soluble in
glycerine than either the carbonate of soda or caustic
soda, may readily be removed by filtration or other con-
venient means.

The inventor sometimes commences by passing carbonic
acid gas through the original soap ley, but he finds it
more convenient to first reduce the bulk of the liquid by
boiling down, thereby separating large quantities of the
salts, and thon treating the liquid with carbonic acid. The
liquid from which the bicarbonate of soda has been
