68 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

During the operation of the blast the soap must be
kept in what is technically termed an “open or grained
state,” and for this purpose salt or brine is to be added
when necessary. Experience proves that it is better not
to make a change of ley during the operation of the blast
where the ley of the strength before mentioned is used,
but if a weaker ley is employed, one or more changes may
be made, as is well understood. It is found desirable that
the soap should be kept at what is called “‘a weak state ’”
during the movement of the streams of air through the
materials, otherwise the soap is apt to swell up from the
air hanging in the grain, and this is found troublesome to
get rid of, requiring long boiling. If dark-coloured
materials are used, it is well to keep the blast in operation
three or four hours after the resin is melted, provided the
soapy mass is kept weak and open-grained. When a
charge is to be worked upon the nigre, such nigre should
be grained, and the spent ley pumped or drawn off as
usual, and the fresh charge added in the manner before
mentioned, using less ley in proportion to the quantity
and strength of the nigre, taking care not to turn on the
blast until there is sufficient grease present to make the
nigre weak.

Meinicke’s Process requires that the soap-pan should
be furnished with a still-head and cooling-worm, since the
resin is added in the form of white turpentine, which,
during the boiling, gives off its volatile oil as a distillate,
which is condensed and saved as a by-product, and thus
decreases the cost of the soap. 1,000 Ibs. of white tur-
pentine are melted in the pan by steam heat with 800 Ibs.
of tallow or inferior fat, and when the mixture reaches
108° Fahr. it must gradually receive, with constant
stirring, 800 lbs. of caustic soda ley containing 30 per
cent. of dry soda. The union of the materials is very
prompt at the above temperature, the acids of the resin.
and grease being completely neutralised and converted
into liquid melted soap. The essential oil of turpentine
is set free at the same time, and in order to promote its
