PUBLISHED BY CROSBY LOCKWOOD & CO. 25
Dr. Lardner’s Handbooks of Natural Philosophy.

*4° The followi: tt s, though each ts Ce te in itsel 1d to be
hated sepiratety abne h Conmiate Coote ov Maguian Paniporine and ioe
intended for the general reader who desives to attain accurate knowledge of the
various departments of Physical Science, without pursuing them according to the
sore profound methods of mathematical investigation, The style is studiously
popular, It has been the author's aim to supply Manuals such as are peguired ty
the Student, the Engineer, the Artisan, and the superior classes in Schools,

THE HANDBOOK OF MECHANICS, Enlarged and almost
rewritten by BENJAMIN LoEwy, F.R.A.S. ith 378 Illustra-
tions. Post 8vo, 6s. cloth,

“The perspicuity of the original has been retained, and chapters which had
become obsolete, have been replaced by others of more modern character. The
explanations throughout are studiously popular, and care has been taken to show
the application of the various branches of physics to the industrial arts, and to
the practical business of life.”"—Mining Yournal,

THE HANDBOOK of HYDROSTATICS and PNEUMATICS,
New Edition, Revised and Enlarged by Benjamin Loxrwy,
F.R.A.S. With 236 Illustrations, Post 8vo, 5s, cloth,

“* For thase ‘ who desire to attain an accurate knowledge of physical science with-
out the found methods of mathematical investigation,’ this work is not merely in-
tended, but well adapted."—Chemical News,

THE HANDBOOK OF HEAT. Edited and almost entirely
Rewritten by BENJAMIN Lozwy, F.R.A.S., etc. 117 Illustra-
tions. Post 8vo, 6s, cloth:

“The style is always clear and precise, and conveys instruction without leaving
any cloudiness or lurking doubts behind."—Engineering.

THE HANDBOOK OF OPTICS. New Edition, Edited by
T, OLvER Harvine, B.A. 298 Illustrations, Post $vo, 5s. cloth,

“‘ Written by one of the ablest English scientific writers; beautifully and elaborately
illustrated."— Mechanics’ Magazine.

THE HANDBOOK OF ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, and
ACOUSTICS, New Edition. Edited by Gzo, Carey Foster,
B,A., F.C.S. With goo Illustrations. Post 8vo, 5s. cloth.

“The book could not have been entrusted to any one better calculated to preserve
the terse and lucid style of Lardner, while correcting his errors and bringing up his
work to the present state of scientific knowledge.”"—Papular Science Review,

Dr. Lardner's Handbook of Astronomy.
THE HANDBOOK OF ASTRONOMY. Forming a Com-
panion to the ‘‘ Handbooks of Natural Philosophy.” By Drony-
stus LARDNER, D.C.L. Fourth Edition. Revisedand Edited by
Epwin DunkxIn, F.R.S., Royal Observatory, Greenwich. With
38 Plates and upwards of.100 Woodcuts. In 1 vol., small 8vo,
550 pages, gs. 6d., cloth.

** Probably no other book contains the same amount of information in so com-
pendious and well-arranged a form—certainly none at the price at which this is
offered to the public.” —A thenenm.

“* We can do no other than pronounce this work a most valuable manual of astro-
nomy, and we strongly recommend it to all who wish to acquire a general—but at
the peel time correct—acquaintance with this sublime science.”"—Ouarterly Fournal
of Science,

Dr. Lardner’s Handbook of Animal Physics.
THE HANDBOOK OF ANIMAL PHYSICS. By Dr,
LarpyerR. With 520 Illustrations. New edition, small 8vo,

cloth, 732 pages, 75. 6d.
“We have i eatin te cordially recommending it.”—Zducational Times.

 
