MISCELLANEOUS PROCESSES, 179

water are added. All these ingredients are to be well
mixed together, and finally 12-5 per cent. of spirit at
90° is to be added and well incorporated with the mass.
The compound is then to be covered, and allowed to rest
for a while, after which it is to be filtered, and is then
ready for use.

Mrs. Marriott’s Process.—For making “a washing or
cleansing compound,” the inventor mixes with common
yellow or any fancy or toilet soap about an equal pro-
portion of very finely-powdered pumice, which is added to
the soap in its melted state. The powdered pumiée is to
be thoroughly incorporated with the soap, so as to be
equally distributed throughout. This compound combines.
the detergent qualities of the soap with the frictional
action of the pumice; at the same time, when used for-
washing or cleansing purposes, the soap lubricates the.
particles of the powdered pumice and modifies its abrasive
action, thus preventing injury to the finest fabrics.

Sawdust in Soap.—Mr. Waller forms a washing or
cleansing compound by adding to melted soap certain
quantities of sawdust, and well mixing the whole together:
by stirring or crutching. The sawdust may, if preferred,
be introduced during the process of manufacture in the:
same way that other ingredients are added to soap.

Lewis’s Process.—Mr. Lewis mixes potato flour, dex-
trine, or other suitable farinaceous substances with a.
viscous solution of soluble glass or solution of silicate
of soda or silicate of potash, in the proportion of about
one part flour to ten or twelve parts.of the silicate. The
soap is manufactured from oleic acid in the usual way,
with the addition of a small quantity of resin, say about
one part of resin to about ten parts of soap. When the
process is finished, and while the soap remains hot and
in a fit condition for running into the cooling frames, the
above compound of the silicate and farinaceous substance
is added in the proportion of about one part by weight to
three parts of the soap, more or less. These materials are
thoroughly incorporated or mixed by crutching and stir-
ring, and then the whole is transferred to the frames
as usual,
