236 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

Twaddell’s figures advance 5° in each number, thus :—
1000 specific gravity is No. 0

1005 7 » ol
1010 a » 2
1015 7 » 3
1020 ” » 4

and so on.

Causticising Soda.—Mr. Parnell’s plan for causticising
soda liquor under pressure appears to have proved very
successful in practice and to have effected a considerable
saving in fuel. The operation is conducted in horizontal
cylinders about 7 feet in diameter and 380 feet long, pro-
vided with a revolving shaft or agitator and “cages” for
holding the lime. Each charge is about 400 cubic feet of
soda liquor, and takes about three and a half to four hours
to causticise under a pressure of from 50 to 60 lbs. to the
square inch. It is stated that 90 or 92 per cent. of the
soda is causticised by this method, and the caustic liquor
comes out up to 32° Twaddell. The “mud” contains from
3 to 4 per cent. of free lime. Each ton of 70 per cent.
caustic soda requires 15 or 16 per cent. of lime. One
apparatus turns out about 70 tons weekly. The patentee
says:—“‘1. I treat the alkaline carbonates, or alkaline
carbonates mixed with caustic lime, under a pressure
greater than the ordinary atmospheric pressure, so as to
obtain a sufficiently high temperature to cause the alkaline
carbonate and the caustic lime to react upon each other.
Thus it is possible, under pressure of 50 lbs. per square
inch, to effect the reaction with a solution of 1-200 specific
gravity or over. 2. I agitate, the mixed alkaline car-
bonates and lime during treatment in the manner above
described in order to facilitate the reaction and hasten its
completion. 3. After the reaction has taken place I
maintain the pressure upon the products, and keep the
temperature constant until I have separated the caustic
soda or potassa, or both, from the carbonate of lime pro-
duced, in order that the reaction may not be reversed by
a reduction of temperature taking place whilst the caustic
alkalies and the carbonate of lime are in contact.

Soda Soft Soap may be made from a mixture of soda
