MISCELLANEOUS PROCESSES. 185

into these frames, and the sides or sections are capable of
being removed so as to leave the soap projecting. Thin
shavings are planed from the block of soap by a cutter
passing along the surface, and the shavings or sheets are
then subjected to the action of a roller which compresses
and smooths them. Then a perforator divides each shaving
or sheet into correspondingly small pieces. Each sheet
should be about 3 inches long by 2 inches broad, and-per-
forated crosswise so as to form four tablets. The sheets
have then about the thickness and portability of postage-
stamps. About one dozen of such sheets may be arranged
in a packet in form of a pocket-book. The packet will
then contain the material for forty-eight separate wash-
ings. IEf desired, the soap may be impregnated with car-
bolic acid, tar, or other medicinal material.

Mz. W. Jeyes’s Process.—The inventor introduces
anthracine salt, naphthaline, or any similar crystallisable
hydrocarbon into the ordinary ingredients of soap. Either
of the above salts is added to and mixed with the ordinary
ingredients of soap at any convenient period during the
manufacture before solidification, and in various propor-
tions, according to the use to which it may be intended to
apply the soap.

M. Varicas’s Process.—‘ The practice now,” says the
inventor, “is to saponify fats with alkalies without any
previous treatment of the fat, looking to the preliminary
decomposition of the same. The result is a comparatively
slow saponification, and all the glycerine which does not
remain in the soap mechanically suspended. is carried off
in the waste ley and lost. The object of this invention is
to prepare fats for instant saponification, and to save all
the glycerine. To effect this, the inventor first extracts the

‘glycerine from fats in their neutral state by the direct
action of steam and water, under a pressure of about
150 lbs., whereby a soap stock is produced susceptible of
immediate saponification when combined with an alkaline
ley. Besides the important advantage of saving all the
glycerine, the whole process of soap-making is said to be
materially hastened, and the resulting soaps are of superior
