RECOVERY OF THE GLYCERINE, 219

jected to distillation to recover the glycerine. -Or the
spent leys may be treated with quick-lime to convert the
carbonate of soda into caustic soda, and after filtration
boiled to concentration, and then fat or fat acid may be
added to remove the soda and such salts as may be in
suspension. The method described above, however, is
preferred, using simply concentrated leys and a fat acid
a the more effectual means of clearing the liquor of
salts.

Allan’s Process.—The inventor first neutralises the
spent leys with any mineral acid with agitation. After
settling, he adds a solution of alum, chloride of lime, or
crude pyroligneous acid, stirring thoroughly. If pre-
ferred, he evaporates to nearly “salting point” before
adding any of the substances mentioned above, and allows
the precipitate to deposit. After settling he draws off
the clear liquor and evaporates it to a concentrated con-
dition in pans (to which the heat is only applied at the
sides), or in shallow pans with sloping bottoms, to which
the heat is applied. The liquor is then distilled in a
glycerine retort heated by superheated steam from within,
and provided with an exit pipe at the bottom, which
carries off the precipitated salt as it accumulates.

Lawson aud Sulman’s Process consists in first evapo-
rating the leys to a density of from 1:14 to 1:16, and
allowing the solution to cool. The salt liquor being thus
concentrated, the residual soapy matters remaining in
solution are rendered insoluble, and, rising to the surface,
may readily be removed by skimming or otherwise for
further use. To remove the albuminous matters remain-
ing in the liquor it is first heated, after which a salt of
chromium sesquioxide is added, which is capable of tanning
or rendering albumen insoluble. The quantity of the
chromium salt added will depend upon the percentage of
albuminous matter existing in the ley. The albuminous
matters thus rendered insoluble by the addition of the salt
are precipitated and removed.

The removal of these matters at this stage prevents
their decomposition by further ‘evaporation, and thus a
