MATERIALS USED IN SOAP-MAKING. 27

by English soap-makers than any other fatty material, is
obtained from the fruit of Elais guineaensis, and E. melano-
cocea, species of palm-trees growingonthe west coast of Africa,
The oil as it comes into this country is of a deep orange-
red colour, due to the mode of its extraction from the
fruit—from which no doubt the colouring matter is derived,
since the oil itself is nearly colourless. This valuable veget-
able fatty matter, which it would be more correct to term
butter than an oil, is composed of about 80 parts of a
solid substance called palmitine, and 70 parts of a fluid,
elaine or oleine. It is solid at ordinary temperatures,
but fuses, or melts, at 117-5 Fahr. By exposure to the air
it turns rancid and loses its characteristic red colour.
The process of bleaching palm-oil by chromic acid will be
fully described in a future chapter.

Cocoanut Oil is derived from the fruit of Cocos
nucifera. Like palm-oil, it is solid at ordinary tempera-
tures, and is a pure white, and of a buttery consistence.
It is extensively used in soap-making—especially for the
inferior kinds of soap, and will bear a large admixture of
water, in combination with silicate of soda and other sub-
stances, and yet form-a hard soap. All soaps made with
even a small percentage of cocoa-nut oil impart an
offensive smell to the skin after washing with it. This
oil is very extensively used in the manufacture of artificial
mottled soaps, but more especially in the north of England,
where enormous quantities of it are consumed annually.

Castor-oil, from the seeds of Ricinus communis and R.
Europea, is also used as a soap material. It is obtained
largely from the East and West Indies, and also from
North America. Castor-oil is supposed to contain three fatty
acids, namely, ricin-oleic, margaritic, and elaiodie acids.
When treated with hyponitrous acid, a solid fatty mass is
produced, which is called palmine. Although not soluble
alone in alcohol it will, according to Dr. Pereira, dissolve
in this spirit when mixed with other fixed oils. Castor-
oil is capable of forming soap with caustic alkalies, but is
always used in combination with other fatty matters for
this purpose.
