MISCELLANEOUS PROCESSES, 183

the bottom of the boiler. After having washed the lime
soap a little and closed the top, a certain quantity of
water is added to the soap, and also a quantity of com-
mercial carbonate of soda equivalent to and rather in
excess of the quantity of lime used.

‘When the ingredients are well mixed and the mixture
boiled, the hard insoluble lime soap will be decomposed,
and the lime precipitated in the form of a granular car-
bonate, while a soluble soda soap or potash soap (where
potash is used to form a soft soap) is produced, which

oats in the shape of flakes on the top of the water, more
especially if sea-salt has been added. This is the reason
why the shape of the truncated cone is preferred for the
boiler and its bottom flat. ‘The heat is applied only round
the boiler. In this way it is said to be possible to make
good soap, using fatty matter with membranes and very
impure oils without incurring the expense of extracting
the pure fat or oil. If cocoa-nut oil or palm-oil are to be
saponified, a quantity of lime equivalent to the fifth of
their weight can be used. These soaps being very soluble,
even in salt water, it is necessary to use tolerably pure car-
bonates of the alkali. :

Half-resin Soap, by Higgins’s process, is produced as
follows :—For a cheap laundry soap is taken prime tallow
or equivalent fat, 10,000 lbs., which is saponified as usual
with caustic soda of, say, 30° strength. After the first or
‘grease’ charge an equal quantity, viz. 10,000 lbs., of
clear resin is added and saponified in the usual manner.
About 6,000 lbs. of caustic soda at a strength of 80° is
used for the whole. Upon the completion of the saponify-
ing process, and while the compound is in a hot fluid state
before framing, a quantity of crystallised stearic acid of
commerce, equal in amount to about 2 per cent. of the
whole mass, is added, or about 3 per cent. of stearine, the
substance in either case being in a melted state. This is
added gradually while the soap is hot and is thoroughly
“crutched” into the body, which is then “framed” in
the usual manner. The mass solidifies into a hard and
useful soap, having in its composition equal portions of
