230 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

of sodium and aluminum. Bauxite is calcined with soda
ash, whereby an aluminate of soda is formed, and the
oxide of iron is separated by lixiviation, the resulting
liquors being evaporated until a dry commercial alumi-
nate of soda is obtained, the composition of which is—
soda, 48; alumina, 40; water and impurities from the
soda ash employed, 9. Cryolite (powdered) is mixed
with six equivalents of lime and boiled with water,
when an insoluble fluoride of calcium is formed and the
alumina becomes dissolved in the excess of caustic soda.
If an excess of lime is used, the alumina will be precipi-
tated, leaving caustic soda alone in solution. We under-
stand that soap is made in the United States to a con-
siderable extent from aluminate of soda.

For making soap from aluminate of soda, about equal
parts of lard and tallow are preferred, and these should
not be heated to a greater extent than is just necessary to
liquefy them. The materials are not boiled in the usual
way, but the combination is effected at the lowest tem-
perature at which they can be intimately mixed.

To determine the Quantity of Resin in Soaps.—
Mr. Sutherland recommends the following process, which
is said to give very satisfactory results :—300 grains of
soap cut into small pieces are introduced into a capsule
and covered with concentrated hydrochloric acid, the
contents are gently boiled till the soap is dissolved and
entirely decomposed ; 4 ounces of hot water are added,
and the capsule is set aside to cool. When cold, the cake
of fatty acids and resin is removed and washed several
times with warm water. After cooling it is dried and
gently remelted, and kept for a few minutes at 212° to
evaporate all traces of water.

This cake containing the fatty acids and the resin
is carefully weighed.

100 grains of the mixture are placed in a capsule and
covered with strong nitric acid and the temperature
raised to the boiling-point ; a powerful reaction takes place
with violent evolution of nitrous vapours. The heat is
withdrawn till the violence of the action subsides, and is
