CHEAPENED SOAPS. 107

gradually by means of a force-pump. Guppy’s proportions
of materials are—for every 24 lbs. of tallow, 10 pints of
caustic soda ley at 17° B. are put into the boiler and
heated to 800° F. Afterwards about 30 pints of ley at
25° B. to every 241bs. of tallow are then introduced by
means of a force-pump, and the heat continued for two
hours at from 300° to 310° Fahr., when the saponification is
complete. Samples are taken from time to time by means
of a small cock fixed for the purpose. This modification
of the former process is said to be more economical and
quicker in its results.

Thomas’s Process.—In some of the processes we have
described sulphate of soda, carbonate of soda, or both in
combination, and silicate of soda or potash have been
employed as cheapening materials for soap. By this
process, however, silicate of soda or potash is used con-
jointly with sulphate or carbonate of soda or potash in
combination with soap, by which a supposed advantage is
gained over their separate use. The silicate and carbo-
nate of either alkali may be either mixed before adding
them to the soap, or they may be introduced separately,
but the patentee usually introduces the sulphate or car-
bonate of soda in crystals, and then adds the silicate in
solution at a specific gravity of about 1:600. The sul-
phates or carbonates may, however, be used in solution.
It is preferable to use the soap as taken out of the pan at
a temperature of from 170° to 200° Fahr., the proportions
of soap and thesalts being regulated according to thequality
of soap to be produced. The following proportions are
said to yield good results:—I. Soap, 15 cwt.; sulphate of
soda crystals, 4 cwt.; silicate of soda (specific gravity
1-600), lewt. II. Soap, 12 cwt.; sulphate of soda crystals,
6 ewt. ; silicate of soda (specific gravity 1-500), 2 ewt.

To combine the soap with the salts, a closed vessel
is employed, surrounded by a jacket, and the vessel is
fitted with a steam-tight cover, with man-hole and lid for
charging, and a vertical shaft working in a steam-tight
stuffing box with arms attached, extending to within half
an inch of the sides, and with vertical blades attached to
