30 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

by the decomposition of common salt by electricity, and
by this process it is expected that the cost of making this
important article of commerce will be greatly reduced,
even beyond the present extremely low prices. .

Potash, previously rendered caustic by boiling with
quicklime and water, is used in the manufacture of soft
soaps. American potash is, however, chiefly used for this
purpose.

Silicate of Soda, or Soluble Glass, as supplied to the
trade, is in the form of a thick, viscid, translucent mass,
which flows very slowly from the casks in which it is stored
after the heads or bungs have been removed. It is pre-
pared by boiling ground flints (silica) in a strong solution
of caustic soda. hen dissolved in hot water it forms a
solution which unites with certain kinds of soap very
readily, forming a cheapened compound readily market-
able; and since the silicate of soda possesses considerable
detergent properties, its admixture with genuine or pure
soap gives an advantage to the consumer which few soap
adulterants can boast. The introduction and method of
preparation of this interesting article into soap is due to
Mr. Sheridan, who obtained a patent for his invention as
far back as 1838. Since that period, however, many other
patents have been obtained for the manufacture and
employment of silicate of soda, all more or less based upon
Sheridan’s invention. Silicate of soda (or soluble glass) is
now commonly made by calcining together, in a rever-
beratory furnace, 9 parts of soda ash of 50 per cent. with
11 parts of clean sand or powdered quartz, for hard soaps ;
or equal parts of pearlash (previously dried) and sand for
soft soaps, the latter mixture forming silicate of potash.
After perfect combination of the alkali with the silicious
matter, it is cast into moulds, and afterwards quenched
with water. It is next ground in a mill, and then boiled in
water containing alkali—potash or soda, as the case may
be. The solution thus obtained is evaporated until it in-
dicates 59 by Baumé’s areometer, or hydrometer. In this
condition it is ready for mixing with soaps, but the soluble
glass is generally supplied to soap-makers in the form of a
