SAPONIFICATION EXPLAINED. II

“Tf a piece of common hard soap be cut into pieces and
then put into a saturated solution of salt, at the ordinary
temperature, it floats on the surface without becoming
moistened, and if heated to boiling, it separates into
gelatinous flocculz, which collect on the surface, and upon
cooling unite into a solid mass, from which the solution
flows off like water from grease. If the floccule be taken
out of the fluid, they congeal on cooling into an opaque
mass, which may be pressed between the fingers into fine
laminze without adhering to them. If the solution of salt
be not quite saturated, the soap takes up a certain quantity
of the water, and the floccule separate through the fluid
in boiling. But even when the water contains th of
common salt, boiling produces no solution.

“Tf the soap be boiled in a dilute and alkaline solution
of salt, and allowed to cool, it again collects on the fluid in
a more or less solid state, depending on the greater or less
concentration of the solution—that is, on the quantity of
water taken up by the soap.. By boiling the dilute solu-
tion with soap for a considerable time, the watery floccule
swell up, and the mixture assumes a foaming appearance ;
but they still are undissolved, for the solution separates
from them. The floccule, however, have become soft
and pasty, even when cold, and their clamminess is due
more or less to the quantity of water they have taken up.
By continued boiling this character again changes, and in
proportion as the evaporation of water renders the solution
more concentrated, the latter again extracts water from
the floccule, the liquid continues to foam, but the bubbles
aro larger. Atlengtha point is reached when the solution
becomes saturated; but before this, large iridescent
bubbles are observed to form, and in a short time all the
froth disappears, the liquid continues to boil without
foam, all the soap collects in a translucent mass on the
surface, and the solution and soap cease to attract water
from each other. If the plastic soap be now removed and
cooled while the solution is pressed out, it will have
become so solid as scarcely to receive an impression from
the finger. In this condition it is called grain soap.
