MANUFACTURE OF HARD SOAPS. 65

prevent the resin from “clogging” and adhering to the
sides of the pan. It is important to moderate the heat, as
the resin soap has-a great tendency to expand, and an
excess of heat would cause it to boil over. The heat,
however, must be kept up to near the boiling-point, other-
wise the mass will become thick and of a very dark colour.
When kept at near.the boiling-point it is always perfectly
clear, and its colour of a reddish-yellow.

If during the boiling the resin soap rises and threatens
to overflow, the heat must be.checked, and a few pails of
cold water thrown into the pan, which at once has the
desired effect. It is absolutely necessary to stir the mass.
continually, otherwise the resin will agglomerate in masses.
and thus prevent the ley from acting freely upon it. The
saponification of 1,200 Ibs. of resin occupies about two.
hours, and the resulting compound is perfectly fluid, and
free from solid particles. The soap being now ready, it is.
introduced into the tallow soap, and thoroughly incor-

orated with it by constant stirring. Before doing s0,.

owever, it is necessary to pass the resin soap through a.
coarse sieve, so as to free it from pieces of straw, wood,
and other like impurities with which it is frequently
contaminated.

It is considered a bad plan to keep powdered resin in
barrels, especially in a warm situation, Since it is liable to-
agglutinate and form a more or less compact mass. It is
better to have the resin reduced to a powder only a short
time before using it. ,

After being well mixed and run into frames it is some-
times the practice to “crutch” each frame until a pellicle
(or skin) forms on the surface, after which the soap is left
to cool. Soap thus made is said to be firm and slightly
alkaline, producing a good lather even in sea-water. The
produce, from the proportions of materials given, should
be 2,250 Ibs. of good soap. The colour, however, is of a
very dark-brown yellow, and, by modifying the process, a
lighter-coloured soap is obtained, but the produce is less.
The second process is as follows :—

Put into the pan 250 gallons of soda ley at 8° or 10° B.

F
