MANUFACTURE OF HARD SOAPS. 43

that an excess of salt is injurious to the marbling of the
soap, and. salted soda must be used whenever it is possible
to obtain it.

“Soda ash is. not so suitable for the fabrication of
marbled soaps as crude soda. Being entirely deprived
of colouring matter and of sulphurets, when it enters in
too large a proportion into the preparation of the lyes, it
lessens the beauty and intensity of the marbling.

“The fabrication of marbled soaps requires several dis-
tinct operations, which may be thus summed up:—-
1. Preparation of the lyes. 2. Pasting, or saponification
ofthe oils and fatty substances. 3. Separation of the
saponified paste from the weak lyesit contains. 4. Coction
(boiling). 5. Mottling or marbling.”

In preparing the ley for the first operation the follow-
ing proportions of soda and lime are given :—

Crude soft soda (black ash) af 34° to 38° ........ 2,250 Ibs.
Recently calcined Time wieesseceeeecescevenes 450

The soda (if in hard lumps) is first broken or crushed,
and the lime slaked by immersion in warm water. “With
warm water,” says Dussauce, “the penetration of the
liquid is more complete. After one or two minutes of im-
mersion the lime is quickly taken out and spread on a
hard, smooth, and dry floor; if the lime is of good quality
it soon grows warm and falls into powder, this powder is
then thoroughly mixed with the soda by means of large
iron shovels. ‘The mixture is conveyed to filters made of
masonry or sheet iron, holding from 125 to 150 gallons,
each filter being provided with a false. bottom pierced
with holes and supported by four little pieces of wood,
which keep it about two inches from the bottom. A
layer of straw is placed over, the false bottom to prevent
the mixture from passing through the perforations and to
aid the filtration. A plug or cork is placed between the
two bottoms of the vessel for the convenience of drawing
off the ley. The mixture of soda and lime is now covered
with water, when, after a while, it swells and’ becomes
warm. After about twenty-four hours the ley is drawn
