8 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

ally found its way into the sewer, or river, as the case
might be. 7

The acids liberated during the process of converting

fats and oils into soap are called “fatty acids,” those

_ obtained from tallow being chiefly stearic and palmitic
acids. Olive-oil and other soft fats yield on sapohification
oleic acid. Palm-oil yields a mixture of palmitic and
oleic acids; and cocoa-nut oil furnishes palmitic, oleic,
and lauro-stearic acids.

Soap, then, is 2 compound of fatty acids combined with
alkali and water. Other substances, however, besides oils
and fats are employed in soap-making ; for example, resin,
a compound of several vegetable acids, is used, with
tallow, to form yellow soap. Metallic soaps, as they are
called, are produced by boiling oxides of metals with oils
or other fatty matters. Diachylon~plaster, which is
formed by boiling litharge (oxide of lead) with olive-oil
and water, is an insoluble soap composed of oleate and
margarate of lead. The glycerine formed during the
process remains with the water.

Soaps are divided, into two principal classes, namely
Harp and Sorr Soars. The former are produced by
combining soda and water with fatty matters, and the
latter are made with potash combined with horse-oil, fish,
and other inferior oils, and hence these are sometimes dis-
tinguished as soda soaps and potash soaps.

ard soaps are of various kinds, the most important
‘being Castile Soap, White Curd, Mottled, Yellow, and
Transparent Soap. These soaps are combinations of tallow,
palm-oil, cocoa-nut oil, olive oil or other fatty substances
with caustic soda—that is, soda deprived of its carbonic
acid by boiling with fresh lime and water.

When tallow is boiled for a considerable time in a
solution of caustic soda (or zy, as the solution is called) the
fatty matters, stearine and palmitine, assume a granular or
curd-like appearance, entirely losing their greasy and oily
character ; and if a small portion be pressed between the
folds of a piece of paper it. will not produce a greasy
