194 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

to take small samples, as near the centre of each cask as’
possible, from as many of the casks as time will permit.
Each sample, as drawn from the cask, should be at once
placed: in a wide-mouthed bottle furnished with a well-
fitting cork. Each sample should be numbered and marked
with the brand which distinguishes each cask. The soap-
maker who tests or assays his own alkali should always
be careful to employ a person of known intelligence and
integrity to procure samples for him. :
hen about to analyze any given sample, first empty
the contents of the bottle upon a piece of dry paper, then
crush the larger lumps, and reduce the whole to a coarse
powder as quickly as possible, so as to prevent absorption
of moisture from the atmosphere. Now carefully weigh
out 100 grains, and put them into a small flask (Hig. 86),
p and at once return the remainder to the bottle,
and securely cork it. Pour into the flask about
half an ounce of distilled water, and gently
heat it, shaking occasionally to assist solution
of the alkali. After a few minutes set the flask
aside to enable the insoluble matter to subside,
then pour the clear liquorinto a beaker-glass,
Fig. 36. and wash the sediment several times with
small quantities of distilled water, being care-
ful to add the washings to the alkaline solution in the
beaker. This washing must be performed several times,
or until the last washing-liquor produces no effect upon
yellow turmeric-paper. So long as the washings give
a brown tint to this test-paper the presence of alkali is
assured, and the washing must be continued. It is im-
portant, after each washing, to pour off the last drop of
the liquor, by which the process is rendered more com-
plete and with less water than when this precaution is
not observed. To ensure perfect accuracy every particle
of the washings must be added to the contents of the
beaker-glass in which the assay is to be made.
The Assay.—To perfoym: the assay, the alkalimeter
moust first be filled with the test-acid exactly to the line 0
or zero of the scale; the acid must then be allowed to’
