MATERIALS USED IN SOAP-MAKING. 29

with other soaps, the recovered grease is useful in the
manufacture of the cheaper kinds of Windsor and other
scented soaps.

The Alkalies used in the saponification of the various
fatty substances employed in soap manufacture are soda
and potash, the former being used, in a caustic state, in
the preparation of hard soaps, and the latter, also being
causticised, is used for ‘making soft soaps. ‘The soda
supplied to soap-makers is an impure carbonate of that-
alkali. As we have said, soap was formerly made from
barilla, a crude carbonate of soda obtained by the calcination
of certain plants which were found on the coasts of France,
Spain, and other countries; it was also made from kelp,
obtained by burning a great variety of seaweeds on the
shores of Scotland, Ireland, Brittany and Normandy in
France. When Leblanc, however, introduced his invalu-
able process for converting sea-salt, first into sulphate of
soda by treating it with sulphuric acid, and afterwards
into carbonate of soda by calcining with fine coal and
chalk, the employment of barillas and kelps gradually,
and eventually entirely, ceased. And now, after enjoying
a long period of unbounded success, other improved pro-
cesses are fast taking the place of Leblanc’s process.

. For a lengthened period, and indeed up to the present
time, soap-makers were accustomed to purchase their
alkali under the name of soda ash, which usually contains
about 50 to 52 per cent. of soda, the exact percentage
being determined by processes to be explained hereafter.
Soda ash, besides other impurities, usually contains from
2 to 3 per cent. of common salt.

Caustic Soda is now supplied to soap-makers at a
reasonable price, consequently they prefer purchasing this
important article to making their own caustic soda, which
involves not only considerable trouble and delay in its
preparation, but also an accumulation of lime-waste,
which is not always easy to get rid of in large cities
and towns.

The author, in conjunction with Mr. J. Berger Spence,
obtained a patent, in April, 1882, for making caustic soda
