MANUFACTURE OF HARD SOAPS. 4

marbling, is the result of certain reactions which occur
between the impurities of the ley (chiefly iron, sulphur,
and alumina) and the saponaceous matter. When these
impurities exist in considerable quantity, they give aslate-
coloured tint to the soap. By examination it has been
found that the fatty acids of the soap exchange bases
with the saline impurities, an insoluble dark-coloured
alumino-ferruginous soup being formed, which is diffused
throughout the mass, with, also, black sulphuret of iron.
These being held in suspension by the thick soapy mass
form bluish veins in the white ground, thus giving the
soap a marbled appearance. By exposure to the air, how-
ever, the iron salts become oxidised, and acquire a reddish
hue from the formation of peroxide of iron. When the
alkali, from which the leys have been made, contains a
large quantity of iron and sulphur impurities, the soap
becomes mottled without any artificial means. This being
seldom the case with the alkali manufactured at the pre-
sent day (excepting the black ash) the desired effect is
produced by adding to the soap, after it is finished or
clarified, and without separating it from the niger or nigre,
four ounces of green copperas (sulphate of iron) for each
100 Ibs. of oil in the soap. The iron salt is first dis-
solved in weak ley, which is added to render the paste
thinnish, and the mixture must be cooled gradually, so
that the coloured soap may become thoroughly diffused
through the mass. Too much ley must on no account be
added, otherwise the darker and heavier soap will sink to
the bottom. Again, the cooling of the soap must not be
too rapid or the coloured veins will close too much, and
thus spoil the “strike ” of the soap.

The soap is allowed to remain in the pan to cool a little,
after which it is ladled into the frames. In France ladles
with perforated bottoms are employed, so that any ley
that may remain mechanically mixed with the soap may
run off. After each frame is filled the soap is well
erutched to make it homogeneous, and, if it be desired to
add water, the requisite quantity is well crutched in
while the soap is still hot. ‘The frames are sometimes
