DISINFECTING SOAP. 113

through a sieve is to keep back unmixed lumps, fragments
of wood, and other impurities. When nearly all the
chloride has been added, with constant stirring, the mass
thickens and in a few moments after it becomes more
fluid, when the decomposition is complete, and the mixture
is ready for use,

The proportion of soap for one frame being put into the
frame, the mixture is to be added a pailful at a time, and
well crutched by one, or y preference two men, care being
taken to clear the soap from the sides and ends of the
frame, otherwise dark patches of the original soap will
appear when the mass is cold.

‘he best kind of soap for converting into the “sanitary
soap” is a stiff curd, from which the leys have been
allowed to drain as much as possible, by several hours’
repose in the soap-pan. It is also important that the soap
should not be of a higher temperature than 130° to 150° F.,
otherwise separation may occur. This is, however, readily
avoided by adopting the precaution suggested. After
crutching, the soap is allowed to cool as usual, and is then
cut into bars in the ordinary way.

When this soap is prepared from ordinary London grey
mottled soap, the bleaching property of the chloride of soda
will manifest itself by the superior colour of the soap,
which, while preserving, to some extent, the mottle or
“strike,” will be considerably improved; and if the
original soap has been made from rank and coarse goods,
the chloride will have diminished their disagreeable odour
in a great degree. Indeed, the chlorinated soap has an
exceedingly agreeable odour as compared with ordinary
mottled soaps. It will be observed that, in adding the
above mixture to soap, the carbonate of lime resulting from.
the decomposition also enters the soap, and this might
naturally appear objectionable. It is but right to mention
therefore that when the mixture is properly prepared, and.
its incorporation with the true soap satisfactorily accom-
plished, the impalpable particles of carbonate of lime are
not perceptible, neither do they present any inconvenience
when the soap is used for laundry or other purposes, while,

: I
