86 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

perfumed with nitro-benzol or cassia its odour was effectu-
ally disguised, and it could, therefore, be employed in mode-
rate proportions in some kinds of fancy soaps. As a rule,
soap-makers have a great dislike to recovered grease, or
Wakefield fat, owing chiefly to its odour, but which, after all,
is neither so disagreeable nor so lasting on the skin or linen
washed with it as that imparted by cocoa-nut oil soaps.,

Morfit’s System of Soap-making.—This has forits object
the conversion of the fatty acids of commerce into soap by
means of carbonate of soda, instead of employing caustic
leys, whereby the inventor produces soap containing defi-
nite proportions of fatty materials, soda, and water, these
proportions being determined before the manufacture com-
mences. The time occupied in making a batch of soap is
stated to be two-and-a-half hours, and in two days after
the soap is ready for cutting. Thus four boils may be
made in one day in each pan, thereby rendering it un-
necessary to keep large stocks of soap on hand.

Although soap made by this system can be “run,” that
is, cheapened by the addition of large quantities of water
and.other adulterations, “it does not, in its integrity, con-
template any such degradation. On the contrary, it is
designed to furnish soap of the greatest possible excellence
at the lowest possible cost, so that the manufacturer may
have a creditable means of securing both profit and success
against the dishonest competition of very much inferior
soaps as made by the older methods.”

The fat acids, being already deprived of their glycerine,
do not suffer loss in the same way that neutral fats neces-
sarily do in the process of saponification, consequently the
whole of the material used, in combination with specific
proportions of soda and water, are ultimately obtained in
the form of soap.

Amongst the advantages which are claimed for the oleic
soaps is the following: they “cleanse better in cold and
hard waters than the highest grade of soap that can be
made from neutral fats. Indeed, for most purposes, it is

not necessary to use hot, or even warm water to bring out
their best effects.”
