76 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

quantity of very weak ley is then added, the temperature
of the mass not being allowed to exceed from 180° to
190° Fahr. The boiling should be continued for about
two hours, at the end of which time the ley will have
become exhausted. A little weak ley is then added, and
salt thrown in, with stirring, until a sample, allowed to
cool, appears clean, dry, and free from greasiness. If it
does not possess these characteristics, and there is no
evidence of causticity, a further dose of ley must be added,
and if necessary more salt.

If too much heat be applied, the soap will become too
thin, causing a separation of the tallow or palm-oil from
the cocoa soap, and the same objectionable result will be
obtained if there be an excess of salt or ley. In the latter
case, the steam is turned off, and a little fresh cocoa-nut
oil must be added, with constant stirring, until the proper
condition is obtained. The heat is to be kept up for'five
or six hours, with frequent stirring, so that a perfect and
uniform combination may take place. When the opera-
tion is finished, the soap is allowed to rest until the fol-
lowing day, when the pan is to be again heated, whereby
the union of the alkali and fatty matters becomes more
perfect, and the soap turns out harder and better than if
framed at once on the completion of the boiling. It is
also considered advisable to allow the soap to cool in the
pan until it indicates a temperature of 155° Fahr. before
removing it to the frames, and to well crutch it, when’ in
the frames, until it begins to stiffen, whereby a more
homogeneous condition of the soap is secured. The
crutching, however, must not be applied when the soap
has cooled down to 180° Fahr., or it will separate from
the ley.

If, after allowing the soap to repose in the pan during
the night, it should be wanting in strength, a little more
ley must be added, until it tastes slightly caustic. Should
this not be effectual, warm strong brine must be gradually
added, and well stirred in until the desired result is
obtained.

Soap containing a large percentage of cocoa-nut oil is
