MANUFACTURE OF HARD SOAPS. 67

the soap an agreeable odour, sometimes 15 per cent. of
bleached palm-oil is combined with the tallow, and the
whole saponified together. This improves the soap by
making it lighter in colour.

Dunn’s Process.—This is recommended by the inventor
to be performed by steam heat, thus conducted :—Into
each of the ordinary soap-pans a circular coil of 14-inch
piping, perforated with holes, is fixed in the well of the
pan, just far enough from the bottom to allow the free
movement of the stirrer beneath it when it becomes neces-
sary to stir the contents below. The circular coil of pipe
is supplied with atmospheric air from a cylinder blast or
other suitable forcing apparatus, the circular coil being
connected with such forcing apparatus by means of a pipe
attached thereto, and rising up to the top of the pan,
where it is furnished with a stop-cock and union-joint for
the purpose of connecting the parts of the pipe within
and without the soap-pan. For a clean yellow soap, put
into the pan 90 gallons of leys of the specific gravity
1:14 made from strong soda ash. The fire being kindled,
the pan is charged, in the usual way, with, say, 2,050 lbs.
of grease, and as soon as the ley is hot and on the boil, or
nearly so, the blast is set in action, while a good brisk fire
is kept up, so as to bring the materials as near boiling as
possible. When the leys are exhausted more ley is
gradually added until the grease, oil, or fatty matter is
“killed.” Then add 550 Ibs. of fresh resin, a pailful at
a time, with more ley occasionally, until 300 gallons of
the above strength have been used, keeping the blast in
action the whole time if the fires draw well, but if not, it
is advisable to stop the blast for a short time, before adding
the resin, to allow the contents of the pan to approach
ebullition. When the whole of the resin is melted and
completely mixed with the soapy mass, and the strength
of the leys taken up, stop the blast, and give a brisk boil-
ing to the contents of the pan, and then let it rest, so that
the spent. leys may separate and settle. The leys being
now drawn. off, the soap is then brought fo strength on
fresh leys as in the ordinary process of soap-boiling.
