1170 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

Bissence de Savon Corinthe.

os

 
 
 

Dry white soap... ccc eee cece cece ener eee 10 ozs.
Alcohol at 80° .. 1 quart.
Potash...... 2 oz.
Essential ofl 6.00.06... cece cee e ence eee eee a few drops.

Digest as before.

Any perfumed toilet soap may be converted into an
“essence,” but doubtless the white Castile soap would
form the most elegant preparation, besides being the most
emollient.

Transparent Soap.—Soap, when perfectly dry, is readily
soluble in warm alcohol, and advantage is taken of this
chemical fact in the manufacture of Transparent Soap—
perhaps the most elegant form which this substance is
capable of assuming.

To prepare transparent soap, either tallow, almond, or
soft soaps may be used, but in either case the soap must
be rendered perfectly free from water. The soap is first
cut into thin slices or shavings, and these are then dried
over a water-bath, or by hot air. Equal parts by weight
of the dried soap and rectified spirit are put into a still,
heated by a water-bath. Only moderate heat is applied,
otherwise the spirit would pass over without dissolving the
soap. It is sometimes the practice to powder the soap in
a mortar after drying before treating it with the spirit,
by which it becomes more readily dissolved. If it is
desired to colour the soap, any colouring matter soluble in
alcohol may be employed, and it is best to colour the spirit
before adding it to the soap.

‘When the soap is completely dissolved, it is allowed to
rest for an hour or more, according to the quantity, after
which the clear and transparent liquid is put into the
frames, in which it will solidify on cooling, When cold
the soap is cut into pieces of, any required size, and these
are moulded in the same way as other toilet soaps. The
soap does not, however, acquire its characteristic trans-
parency until after it has been exposed to dry air fora

- considerable time. To colour the soap red, astrong tincture
of archil may be used, and for yellow turmeric may be
