28 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

Among the other vegetable fixed oils used in soap-
making may be mentioned the oils of hempseed, rapeseed,
cotton-seed, poppy, linseed, sesamum, colza, beech-nut, etc.

Besides the ordinary fats and oils, certain fatty matters
called greases are much used by soap-makers.

Bone-grease is supplied by bone-boilers, and forms a
useful soap material for mottled soaps. :

Horse-grease, although not an abundant article, is
available as a soap material. ;

Kitchen-stuff, as prepared by the “ stuff-melters,” is a
very useful material for mottled soaps, and is largely used
by the London soap-makers for this purpose. Being the
produce of kitchen waste it contains many different kinds
of fatty matter, but after its separation from the more
solid particles, as gristle, rind, bones, fibrin, ete., by pres-
sure, it forms an uniform fatty mass of good consistency,
and contains a considerable proportion of stearine, which
renders it well suited to the manufacture of a curd soap
such as the London mottled soap. .

Oleine, or Tallow-oil, which has been separated from
stearine by pressure, in order that the latter may be used
alone for candle-making, is a useful material, in combina- '
tion with stronger fats.

Fish-oils are chiefly used in the manufacture of soft, or
potash soaps, in combination-with tallow.

Resin, or Colophony, was first employed as a soap
material in England. It is extensively used in the manu-
facture of yellow soaps, the pale, or yellow resin being pre-
ferred for this purpose. Yellow resin generally contains a
little water, which does not exist in the darker varieties.

Recovered grease, or Yorkshire fat, is obtained from
the suds and washing waters of the fulling mills. It is of
a brown colour, of disagreeable odour, and of a sticky
consistence. When melted, and a strong solution of
carbonate of soda added to it, effervescence takes place,
from the disengagement of carbonic acid, the grease con-
sisting of several fatty acids, which act powerfully upon
the carbonated alkali.* When neutralised, and mixed

* This grease often contains oils which canuot be saponified.
