USEFUL NOTES AND TABLES. 233

the pan. Watered, or “run”? soaps are those which have
water or weak leys added and mixed with the soap in the
_ 80ap-pan.

Saponification of Neutral Fatty Bodies by. Soaps:
By M. J. Pelouze——One of the oldest and most skilful
candle-makers in France, M. de Milly, made a series of
important experiments on the saponification of fatty
matters, and especially suet, by lime, in which he demon-
strated that a much smaller percentage of lime than was
ordinarily employed would effect the complete saponifi-
cation of the fatty matter. Having reduced the per-
centage of lime from 15 to 8 or 9 per cent., he subse-
quently reduced the proportion to 4 per cent. of the fatty
matter operated upon, the condition being that of sub-
jecting the lime, water, and fatty matter to an elevated
temperature. The operation was performed in a metallic
boiler, which was maintained for several hours at a tem-
perature corresponding to a pressure of 5 to 6 atmospheres.

It is easy to understand the economy of an operation
which enables us to diminish to one half the quantity of
sulphuric acid necessary for’ the decomposition of the lime
soap. It appeared to me interesting to subject to an
attentive examination a saponification performed with so
small a quantity of a base as one twenty-fourth part of
the aciditied fatty matter.

I prepared a lime soap by double decomposition,
pouring a solution of chloride of calcium into an a
solution of commercial soap. The precipitate, wen well
washed, was introduced into a small Papin’s digeSter, with
nearly its own weight of water and 40 per cent. of olive
oil. “The vessel was kept for nearly three hours, in an oil
bath at a temperature of from 311° to 329°\F. The
water above the precipitate was evaporated, anid left a
syrupy residue presenting all the properties of glyckrine..

The precipitate, when boiled im water acidulated' with
hydrochloric acid, furnished a completely acidified fatty,
matter ; for it was directly and entirely soluble in alcohol |
and the alkalies. In one word, the reaction showed all '
the characters of the ordinary decomposition of the neu-

  
