USEFUL NOTES AND TABLES. 235

The experiment of M. Milly, which served as-a founda-
tion for my work, may be explained in an analogous manner.

It must be admitted that the saponification of suet by’

means of 4 per cent. of its weight of lime presents several
distinct phases in which a basic or neutral soap is formed
at first and is‘then changed into a relatively acid soap.

The observations of which I have been giving a sum-
mary find a simple interpretation in M. Chevreul’s works
on fatty bodies. They lead us to look forward to fresh
developments in this class of numerous and important
substances. When the elements of water alone cause the
decomposition of neutral fatty bodies into fatty acids and
glycerine, we may expect that science and industry will
multiply and vary the phenomena of saponification.

Jellifying is a term applied to soap which, after being
dissolved in a certain quantity of water, sets into a jelly
when cold. Soap-makers frequently test the jellifying
property of their soaps in this way :—After having care-
fully weighed 1 ounce of soap, this is cut up into thin
shavings, and these are placed in a porcelain capsule ; 74
ounces of water (by measure) are then added, and the
whole gently boiled over a spirit-lamp, constantly stirring
with a glass rod until the soap is all dissolved. Cold
water is then added to make up 16 ounces, and the solu-
tion of soap is then set aside to cool. If the soap is of
good quality it should gelatinise in half an hour. In
cloth factories, and large laundries also, the character of
soap is determined by its congealing or jellifying pro-
perties. For this purpose 1 ewt. of soap is boiled by
steam heat in 80 gallons of water. When thoroughly
dissolved, cold water is added to make up 170 gallons in
all. At the end of twelve hours or so the solution of soap
will have set into a jelly ifthe soap has been of good quality.

Twaddell’s hydrometer is used in England for liquids
heavier than water. Its degrees are converted into specific
gravities by multiplying them by 5, adding 1,000, and
dividing the sum by 1,000. Thus:—

20 Tw. = 20 X 5* + 1000

1000 == 1:100

 
