oF THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

‘When the soap has acquired its proper consistence, it is
to be shovelled into the frames in the usual way, or may
be blended with various proportions of other soaps.

Kottula’s Soaps.—A departure from the ordinary sys-
tem of soap-making was introduced by Dr. Kottula about
twenty-five years ago, and at the time attracted much
attention. In conducting his process, Kottula adds to
ordinary curd, mottled, yellow, or other soaps, made in the
ordinary way, fatty matters, lime liquor, concentrated
soda leys and alum, with the object of producing a cheaper
neutral soap than he believes was hitherto produced. The
fatty matters he employs are such as are commonly used
by soap-makers. He first boils soda leys until they have
acquired the strength of about 380° B., and then adds
to them alum, in the proportion of about 33 lbs. to each
ewt. of ley. He then prepares a “lime liquor” by
adding to any requisite quantity of water as much lime
as it will absorb or take up, and to this lime solution he
adds sal ammoniac in the proportion of about half a pound
to each cwt. of the solution. Sometimes he omits the
sal ammoniac.

"The fatty matters, concentrated soda leys, and lime
liquor are now added to the melted soap in such propor-
tions that the fatty matters will become duly saponified,
and that the soap produced may be of the required descrip-
tion. The whole are then boiled in the usual way. The
proportions of fatty matter, concentrated leys, and lime
liquor may be varied according to the character of soap -
required. The following proportions are, however, recom-
mended :—Ordinary fitted soap, or curd soap, 10 tons;
fatty matters, 4 tons ; soda leys, prepared as above, 43 tons;
lime liquor, 63 tons. To produce a mottled soap he adds
a certain quantity of ultramarine, oxide of manganese, or
other suitable pigment, previously mixed with water, and
the whole are then boiled together for half an hour, when
the soap is ready for cleansing in the usual way.

Instantaneous .Soap.—By a modification of the above
process Kottula produces what may be termed an instan-
taneous soap, by combining fatty matters with concentrated
