56 IHE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

heat is now needed. The fire is briskly kept up, and the
entire kettle covered with planks and cloths. The soap
now boils up with considerable frothing, and to prevent
it from running over, one of the planks is removed, and
the foam is beaten with a long iron rod until it subsides.
The kettle is again closely covered, and the boiling re-
sumed, the prevention of overflow being again regulated
as before.

The violence of the ebullition gradually diminishes, but
in its stead a whistling noise is perceived in the kettle.
One of the planks is removed from time to time, and the
soap examined ; when, if large antl perfectly translucent
bubbles rise up, the soap is finished, and the fire is there-
fore extinguished. The wooden planks are next removed
to allow, the soap to cool, and a few buckets of soap ley
are poured into the kettle. The soap is now ready to be
put into the frames, and care is taken that as little ley as
possible enters the frames.

Boiling with soda ley presents this advantage, that the
soap may be finished in one water. The first ley is applied
at the strength of 10° to 12°B. The whole of the fat is
placed in the kettle, with one-fourth of the ley requisite
for saponification, and the boiling carried on as usual.
After boiling up, the mixture is examined to ascertain if
the proper combination has taken place, in which case
further addition of ley, at 16° to 18° B., is added. The
addition of this ley is continued until a sample placed on
a piece of glass appears perfectly clear. The cutting of
the pan follows, which removes the glycerine formed, and
the surplus water. In this case much Jess salt is required
than when boiling with potash ley. For each 100 lbs. of
fat 10 Ibs. to 12 lbs. of salt are required. The salt may
be applied in the dry state or in solution, as preferred.
The remaining operations are conducted as before de-
scribed.

Soda soaps made by this process have some advantages,
principally because it is impossible to remove all the
potash ; besides which, they are generally very neutral
and plastic.—Dussauce.
