114 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

on the other hand, its very superior cleansing and
bleaching powers render it infinitely more economical to
the user. It has been found in large laundries that
women whose hands had suffered much from using mottled
soap containing caustic ley in its interstices, were agree-
ably surprised to find their excoriated hands assume
the normal condition after using the chloridised soap for a
short time. Indeed it isa fact that this compound soap
imparts a most agreeable smoothness to the skin, which,
after using it, becomes remarkably soft and glossy.

Instead of employing carbonate of soda in preparing the
chloride of soda, as before described, a solution of silicate
of soda (glass liquor) may be used, for which suggestion
the author was indebted to his friend Mr. John Cowan, of
the Barnes Soap Works. In this case, the following pro-
portions may be taken.

Chloride of lime worked up into a thin paste or cream,
as before 20 Ibs. ; silicate of soda, 20 lbs., dissolved in warm
water until it marks about 18° Twaddell. These materials
are to be mixed and used in the same manner as before,
and the proportions of the chlorinated mixture may be
regulated according to the nature of the soap, from four to
a 60 Ib. pailfuls being a fair proportion for a half:ton
‘rame.

When the chloridised soap has been well prepared, linen
and floor-boards washed with it become remarkably white
with comparatively little labour, which facts have been
demonstrated by repeated and extensive trials.

It should be mentioned that the chloride has the effect
of considerably hardening soaps free from resin, and is
specially available for soaps containing a large percentage
of cocoa-nut oil; and even after bein, heavily “run” or
liguo with silicate solution, several 60 Ib. pails of the
chloride mixture may be added with advantage. Soap of
this kind however should be crutched, as usual, until begin-
ning to “set.”

An important application of the chloride of soda is in
bleaching soap made from the darkest nigers, which may
he effected by introducing certain proportions of the
