MANUFACTURE OF HARD SOAPS. 53

put into frames, which are preferably made of wood, since
this material retains the heat longer than iron frames, and
by the more gradual cooling a finer marbled appearance
is obtained. hen mottled soap is moulded in cast-iron
trames, the ends of the bars are liable (from rapidity of
cooling at the sides of the frames) to have a plain whitish
appearance, instead of being marbled.

White Curd Soap.—The finest quality of this soap is
made from pure tallow, rendered, as before stated, from the
suet of oxen and sheep. English, or “town tallow,” as the
London tallow melters call it, in contradistinction to the
products imported from Russia and other foreign countries,
was generally preferred until the introduction of American
and Australian tallows, which, being of good quality, are
equally serviceable in the manufacture of this soap.
Besides tallow, however, other materials, as lard, bleached
palm-oil, olive-oil, or mixtures of these in varying propor-
tions, are used in making curd soap.

To produce one ton of curd soap, from 10 to 14 ewt. of
tallow or olive-oil are required. The process of saponifi-
cation is the same as for mottled soap, excepting that the
removal of all colouring matter and impurities of the ley
must be effected by boiling the soap repeatedly with fresh
leys after the removal of each previous dose of ley, or by
thinning the soap with a small quantity of ley with gentle
boiling, and then covering the pan and allowing the soap
to repose for several hours, to allow the leys to subside.
By thus washing (as we may say) the soap with ley, all the
dark-coloured impurities are removed, and subside with
the leys, leaving the soap clean, and, when cold, white.
When finished, the curd is ladled out of the pan and put
into the frames, which should be covered with canvas, or
clean empty sacks, so that the soap may retain its heat,
and thereby enable it to close properly.

The following is the French system of making tallow
curd or grained soap: to transform 1,000 lbs. of tallow
into grain or curd soap, 400 lbs. of potash have to be taken.
The tallow is placed in the kettle (pan), about 400 lbs. of
ley of 10° B. added, and the fire kindled. In a short time
