100 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

concentrated (by evaporation of water therefrom), a thick
viscous compound is obtained, which is easily redissolved
by the addition of water. This thick viscous compound
contains alkali in a state of weak combination with silica,

and is therefore analogous to true soap,* which contains

alkali in a weak combination with fatty acids, and it is to

this condition of alkali being weakly combined in both

compounds, and therefore ready to enter into other com-

binations, that the detergent properties of true soap and

the soluble compound of silica and alkali are attributable.

When the thick viscous compound of silica and alkali

(above mentioned) is added to true soaps, and intimately’
mixed therewith, a compound soap is obtained, at a low

cost, possessing valuable detergent properties.”

Preparation of Silicate of Soda.—Gossage prepares
silicate of soda or silicate of potash by fusion, much in the
same way as that adopted in the production of ordinary
glass. He mixes together about equal parts of dry car-
bonate of soda and clean sand, to which is added one part
by weight of ground coke or charcoal for each nine parts
by weight of carbonate of soda. This mixture is melted
in the same way as mixtures of sand and alkalies are in
glass-making. The melted mass is afterwards poured into
cold water, which renders it more friable. The product is
then ground to a fine powder, and afterwards dissolved by
boiling in three or four times its weight of water. During
the boiling liquid caustic soda is sometimes added. After
reposing for a few hours the clear liquor is drawn off and
concentrated by evaporation until it assumes a viscid con-
dition suitable for mixing with pure soap.

Preparation of Silicate of Potash.—In making silicate
of potash, twelve parts of dry carbonate of potash, two
parts of sand, and one part of coke or charcoal are mixed
together, and the whole melted and treated as above. In
place of sand, ground felspar may be used, in which case
three parts of this mineral are substituted for two parts of
sand, and only one-half the quantity of alkali is used.
Sulphate of soda or sulphate of potash may be used instead

* Or, as Sheridan said, “Having the appearance‘of saponified matter.”
