34 .THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

and is seldom worked in the soap-pan, being used instead of
water, to stanch or fill up the strong or first set vats. As
soda ash is not all equally soluble, it is sometimes
necessary to turn the contents of the vat over a second
time in order to obtain all the free alkali; but experience
and care are the only sure guides. The receivers for the
ley are generally much smaller vats, but it is preferable to
have them of the same size, it being at all times desirable
to have a sufficient supply of strong caustic ley.

“Should the ley in the course of the process of boiling
the soap ‘close,’ as it is termed, with the materials, and
not separate, a small quantity of common salt thrown with
care into the boiling soap will effect a separation ; but this
is always to be avoided if possible. The ley may be taken
out of the vat with a pump or syphon. A third running
may be taken from the first vat to stanch with.”

In order to ascertain whether the soda has been properly
and ‘fully causticised, a few drops of hydrochloric acid
(muriatic acid) are added to a small quantity of the ley,
and if effervescence takes place it is a sure indication that
uncausticised carbonate of soda is present. In this case
the ley must be returned to the lime again and again, if
necessary, until it is perfectly caustic. Boiling the lime
and soda ash is a method frequently, if not generally,
adopted, and indeed there is no doubt that it is a surer
method of rendering alkalies caustic than by a cold
process.

_A simple method of ascertaining if there be any
carbonate of soda remaining in the ley is to pour a little
of the ley into clear lime-water, when if the mixture
assumes a milky appearance (from the formation of
carbonate of lime) it is proof that uncausticised carbonate
of soda is present.

In making caustic'soda by steam boiling, fifty pounds
of fresh slaked lime are required for each one hundred
pounds of soda, and about ten to twelve parts of water to
each part of soda. It is usual to slake the lime with hot
water, and when the soda and lime with the water have
been put into the tank or vat, the steam is turned on and
