SAPONIFICATION UNDER PRESSURE. 11g

“At the fire end of the cylinder are placed twq
safety valves, one ¢ on the top of the cylinder, the
other d on an outlet pipe inserted in the head of the
cylinder. They also use a mercury bath x of about fou
inches in length of gas-pipe, and which is screwed inte
the boiler or cylinder in any convenient place for the
insertion of the thermometer bulb. At the opposite end
of the cylinder is an opening 7 for the insertion of a
supply pipe; at the fire end is also an opening / fon
the insertion of a second outlet pipe, and which is
intended to be used only when it is desired to draw off
the whole contents of the vessel. When the machinery
is first put in operation, it is necessary to allow some
carbonic acid to escape by one of the safety valves, if
carbonate of soda is used, in order to prevent undue
pressure by the liberation of the carbonic acid when
combination of the fatty acids with the alkali takes place.
If any of the liquids be allowed to escape before the
temperature reaches 325° to 375°, they should be returned
to the cylinder.

“The safety valve on the outlet pipe d@ may be so
loaded as to allow an escape of soap at a pressure of 250
to 270 Ibs., and a quantity of ley and oil may be pumped
in at the opposite end, the agitation being Kept up, and
thus a continual stream of soap is kept up as long as the
feeding is continued. The product may then be prepared
for market by cooling, moulding (framing) and cutting
Processes in ordinary use. By this process the soap is
made in less than one hour from the time the ingredients
are introduced into the boiler, but a uniform and thorough
saponification is obtained at the instant thatthe heat and
pressure arrive at the required degree, be the time long or
short; if this degree is reached in five minutes, the soap
is made.”

The proportions employed by the inventors are thus
given: carbonate of soda (English) at 48°; water,
100 lbs.; lard, tallow, or dil, 100 lbs.; 27 lbs. of
carbonate of soda will, it is said, make a neutral soap
for soft water. The product obtained by the above
