ALKALIMETRY. 197

“ Commercial Soda.—Five hundred grains are weighed
out from the thoroughly powdered and mixed sample.
After being dried it should be gently ignited in a porce-
lain or platinum crucible, and allowed to cool without
exposure to the air. When cool it is again weighed; the
loss indicates the amount of moisture. It is then washed
into a beaker, in which it is dissolved. Should any in-
soluble residue remain it is filtered off, dried, and weighed;
the clear filtrate is made up [with distilled water] to
exactly 10,000 grain measures. The solution is well
mixed together, and from it 1,000 grain measures are
taken, transferred to a beaker, the solution made blue by
a few drops of litmus water, heated nearly to boiling, and
then tested with the normal acid [or standard test-acid]
until the neutral point is reached; the process may be
repeated several times, if necessary, to be certain of the
accuracy of the analysis. In order, however, to avoid all
ambiguity arising from the carbonic acid, a sufficient
quantity of acid may be added to render the acid very
decidedly red, and then the normal caustic alkali* added
drop by drop until the liquid changes suddenly to
violet-blue. The number of divisions of the burette
that have been required to effect this must be deducted
from the quantity of acid originally used. By this
backward or residual method very sharp results may be
obtained.

“ Example.—Suppose 850 burette divisions of the nor-
mal acid have been required, the following calculation
gives the amount of real carbonated alkali in the sample :—

1000 ; 850°; 538 7 x

a2 = 45, the amount of carbonate of sodium in 58 grains
of the sample.
“The soda ash of commerce contains generally, besides

* The normal caustic alkali solution is prepared by dissolving exactly
56 grains of hydrate of potassa (pure caustic potash), or 40 grains of
hydrate of soda (pure caustic soda), in 1,000 water-grain measures of dis-
tilled water. The solution is applied from a burctte.
