130 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING,

be given, until the lime is perfectly freed from the alkali,
and these latter washings may be used in lieu of water in
subsequent operations, or instead of using pure water in
dissolving fresh quantities of potash when preparing other
batches of ley.

Some manufacturers employ variable proportions of soda
with their potash leys, by which the soft soaps made with
them acquire a firmer consistence than when caustic potash
alone is used, besides which an advantage is gained b
using a proportion of the cheaper alkali. When this is
the case the soda may be dissolved with the potash in the
first instance, the proportion of soda to that of potash
being from 12 to 20 per cent.; but when a larger pro-
portion than 15 per cent. of soda is used, the resulting
soap will not be so transparent as ordinary soft soaps.

The Fatty Materials employed.—These are the
animal and vegetable oils. Of the animal oils, those
of the whale, seal, and cod are chiefly used; the vege-
table oils are olive, hempseed, linseed, rapeseed, coleseed,
colza, poppy, &c. Sometimes oleic acid, palm-oil, and
small quantities of tallow are also employed in the manu-
facture, but the latter is only used to give the soap a
granular or fig-like appearance.

In making Soft Soap, the selected oils are first put into
the pan, and moderate heat applied until the oils have be-
come thoroughly liquefied, when the third ley, marking
from 6° to 8° B., is run in gradually, with continual stir-
ring, until a perfect combination of the alkali and fatty
matters is effected, which is determined by the mass
assuming a perfectly homogeneous condition, there being
no uncombined oil on the surface or Jey at the bottom of
the pan. The mixture is then gently brought to a boil,
and this is kept up, with stirring, for several hours. As
soon as the paste assumesa moderate degree of consistency,
additions of the second ley, at about 12° to 15° B., are to
be made gradually, that is a few gallons at a time every
quarter of an hour or so, continuing to do this with con-
stant boiling for a few hours, during which time the added
alkali will become gradually absorbed.
