48 . THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

the first case the soap must be heated gently, and when
the ley is sufficiently warm, stir well until the proper con-
sistence is obtained. In the second case, run off the leys,
and add fresh pure ley at 10° to 12° B., with gentle boiling
and stirring.

Before putting the marbled soap into frames, it is usual
to first place a little warm ley at the bottom of each frame,
to prevent the soap from adhering to it ; sometimes, also, a
piece of canvas is laid over the bottom of the frame with
the same object. When properly: boiled, the soap is in
the form of hard and separate grains, the entire mass
having a bluish-black colour, the intensity of which
depends upon the quantity of metallic soaps present in
the mass, and which are due to the salts of alumina and
iron contained in the ley. These metallic soaps, during
the cooling of the mass, separate from the white soap
(which forms the ground or base) in irregular veins of
varied colour, and thus a marbled appearance is obtained,
the beauty of which depends greatly upon the skilful
manipulation of the “ mottler,” or workman who superin-
tends this part of the operation. It is an important point
to run the soap into the frames when the proper condition
for good mottling has been attained.

Notes on Mottling.—The strongest ley is first intro-
duced, then the medium, and lastly the weakest.

The principal points to be observed in mottling are:
1. The introduction of weak leys into the paste; 2. The
application of gentle heat to keep the mass in a fluid
state; and, 3. Continual stirring.

The precautions to be observed are: 1. Not to add more
leys than are necessary, so that the heavier metallic soaps
(which are the colouring principles of the mottling) may
be thoroughly disseminated through the mass of white
soap, and ultimately produce the marbled veins which are
characteristic of the soap. 2. The temperature of the
soap must not be too high. 3. If too much weak ley has
been applied, this, by thinning the mixture, will cause
the heavier metallic soaps to sink into the leys, and the
soap will be white instead of being marbled. 4. If the
