RECOVERY OF THE GLYCERINE, 221

the various bodies for commercial purposes, and especially
to extract the glycerine from spent leys, the inventor first
saturates the ley, when cold, with hydrochloric acid. The
solids are precipitated and collected; the neutral clear
liquid is evaporated in any suitable heating apparatus.
By degrees, as the evaporation proceeds, the salt is preci-
pitated and is removed, subjected to the action of a tur-
bine, and washed. In most cases this salt is sea-salt in a
nearly pure state. The evaporation is arrested when the
liquid has arrived at a density of about 32°3B. At this
point the glycerine contained in the ley still contains con-
siderable quantities of salt in solution, the greater part of
which is diminated by the following treatment ; that is to
say, the pyeerine liquid, at about 32° B., is poured into
any suitable vessel and hot air is blown into it, or the
liquid is otherwise heated and cold air blown into it. The
air so heated, or heated by the glycerine itself, gradually
eliminates the last traces of water in the glycerine, and
salt is constantly precipitated, as the latter is very slightly
soluble in anhydrous glycerine. To eliminate the water
evaporation in vacuo might also be effected, but would be
more expensive. As the final result, highly concentrated
glycerine mixed with salt crystals is obtained. A tur-
bine is used for eliminating the salt, which is systemati-
cally washed, and the water used for the washing is again
treated.

The glycerine, thus purified by one or the other of these
two processes, contains only a very small quantity of sea~
salt in solution, and may be distilled. The inventor also
adopts another method when he desires to obtain the car-
bonated or caustic salts of soda in the condition of
carbonates, instead of transforming them into chlorides
by means of hydrochloric acid. For this purpose he
evaporates the ley and introduces into it carbonic acid, so
as to convert the caustic soda into carbonate. When the
liquor indicates about 25°, he allows the ley to cool, when
he introduces an excess of carbonic acid, whereby bicar-
bonate of soda is formed, which is only slightly soluble,
especially in a glycerine solution of salt. The greater
