OLEIC ACID SOAPS. 89

The oleic acid is first run into the pan and heated, after
which, about 100 gallons of old ley, at 22° to 25° B., are
introduced. In a short time the oil assumes a spongy
condition. If necessary, the operation may be hastened
by adding a few gallons of fresh ley at about 28° B. The
heat is to bo kept up moderately for five or six hours,
with occasional stirring, until the grains of soap formed
become dissolved. As soon as this is effected, the whole
is to be brought to a gentle boil until a thick foam appears
on the surface; tiis foam must be kept under by con-
tinual agitation, and if there is a disposition of the mass
to rise above the edge of the pan, from 12 to 15 gallons of
ley at 20° or 25° B. may be dashed in. It is better, how-
ever, to check the heat at times, and to add the leys
cautiously, rather than to be compelled to resort to the
application of fresh leys to subdue the rising of the mass.
During the boiling, a perfect separation must take place,
and the soap appear in the form of small grains. When
this condition is arrived ati the boiling is to be continued
for about a couple of hours, the steam then turned off, and
the soap allowed to stand for about eight or ten hours.
At the end of this period the leys are drawn off, and the
operation of saponifying the tallow commenced. This
tallow is first put into the pan, when 75 gallons of fresh
ley at 20° to 28° B. are run in, and the whole well stirred,
to ensure perfect combination of the leys with the tallow.
The mixture is then suffered to rest until the following
day, when the steam is to be again turned on. After a
while the grains formed during the saponification of the
oil gradually disappear, and the tallow begins to assume
the usual pasty condition. As soon as this is complete,
which is determined by frequent examination of small
samples taken from the mass during the boiling, the steam
is turned off, and the process of separation commenced.
To separate the saponified materials, small quantities of
old leys at 22° to 25° are added (about 3 or 4 gallons at a
time), when considerable effervescence occurs. Similar
doses of ley must be added from time to time, with con-
tinual stirring ; but each portion of ley must be allowed
