MANUFACTURE OF SOFT SOAPS. 139

(brown oil) soap, and mottled soap, in the proportion of
nine parts of the former to six parts of the latter.

M. Loch’s Soft Soap.—tn addition to the usual fatty
matters the inventor introduces borax, binoxalate of
potash (salt of sorrel), soapwort, pipeclay, sal ammoniac, and
turpentine, whereby he professes to produce a cheap and
economical soap, “particularly applicable for manufac-
turers of woollen goods, cotton-mills, bleaching and
scouring works, &c.” To make 220 lbs. of the soap, 9 lbs.
of soapwort (Saponaria officinalis) are boiled in 22 gallons
of water, which is then passed through a sieve. In
13 gallons of this decoction, while hot, are dissolved
62 lbs. of slaked lime, and in the remaining 9 gallons,
also while hot, are dissolved 9 Ibs. of borax, 26 Ibs. of
potash, and 2-2 Ibs. of binoxalate of potash. This solution
is then poured slowly into the first-named decoction, and
the mixture is boiled until the ley is found to be suffi-
ciently caustic. The whole is again passed through a
sieve, and then boiled gently with 66 lbs. of fixed oils until
thick bubbles rise, and the soap assumes the required floc-
culent condition ; 13 lbs. of resin and 13 Ibs. of Iceland
moss (previously boiled down and passed through a sieve).
This mixture is then allowed to boil slowly until thick
bubbles rise and all the ingredients have thoroughly com-
bined. It is then allowed to cool, and finally, at the time
of packing for transport, 6°6 Ibs, of sal.ammoniac and
2-2 Ibs. of pure turpentine are mixed up with 220 Ibs. of
the soap. The packing for transport is by preference
effected in well-closed wooden cases, which are coated
well inside and outside with silicate of soda, and a sheet
of vegetable parchment should be placed over the soap
before putting on the lid.

The use of sal ammoniac and of binoxalate of potash in
this process is not easily intelligible. Again, Panama
bark (Quidlaza Frnt far preferable to soapwort,
but it is generally used, not in combination with soap, but
as a separate agent. It is largely used in getting up the
finest quality of white worsted goods.
