METHODS OF ANALYZING OR ASSAYING SOAPS. 203

of gentle heat the alcohol will dissolve the soap and leave
all these impurities in an insoluble state. Good mottled
soap should not leave more than 1 per cent. of insoluble
matter, and white or yellow soap less still. All soap to
which earthy or silicious matter has been added is opaque
instead of being transparent on the edges, as is the case
with all genuine fitted soap. ‘The drier the soap the more
transparent it is.”—Normanpy.

There is no better test for insoluble impurities than
dissolving a given weight—say 100 grains—of soap in
aleohol.* After the insoluble matters have subsided, the
clear solution should be poured off, and the residual matter
washed several times with alcohol, after which it should
be carefully dried and weighed.

To determine the nature of the fatty matters which have
been used in thc manufacture of soap is a difficult and
sometimes a very laborious task. An approximate result
may be obtained, however, by first saturating an aqueous
solution of the soap with a solution of tartaric acid; the
fatty acids which float on the surface may, when cold, be
transferred to a porcelain capsule, and heated gently over
a water-bath. By applying a thermometer, the fusing
point will give some idea of the nature of the fatty material,
as to whether the soap was made from tallow or oils, or a
combination of both. Again, if the fatty acids have been
separated by dilute sulphuric or hydrochloric acid, if a
little be rubbed in the palm of the hand the odour will
frequently indicate the nature of the fatty material.

Soft soaps are assayed in the same way as hard soaps,
but the manipulation is somewhat more troublesome, and
therefore mae a little extra caution.

Unsaponified fatty Matter—A properly-made soap is
entirely soluble in water. If, therefore, after a sample of
soap has been dissolved in hot water and allowed to rest
for awhile a film of fatty matter appears on the surface
(and which makes a greasy stain upon paper), that portion
of the fat has not been saponified.

* Good methylated spirit answers equally well, and is much cheaper
than alechol.
