MANUFACTURE OF HARD SOAPS, 63

and gradually with alkali; it becomes denser and firmer,
and may then receive stronger leys without fear of the
tallow separating from the already saponified mass. There
would be no danger of separation if too strong leys were
used when the paste is imperfectly saturated with alkali.
To prevent this inconvenience, the mass is boiled for a few
hours after the addition of the ley. The object of this
boiling is to render the union of the molecules more
intimate and complete.

The saponification is finished by the addition of
25 gallons of new ley at 20° to 25° B., which is added,
6 gallons at a time, every ten or fifteen minutes. When
all the ley is added, the steam is turned off, and the
mixture stirred for half an hour. By combining with
the strong ley, the paste thickens and acquires a consistency
proportionate to the quality of the tallow. The time of
this operation varies from eight to ten hours.

Separation is effected with clear leys of coction* at 20°
to 25° B. While the ley is being added gradually, the
mass is kept constantly stirred. hen the quantity ofley
added. has been sufficient to effect the separation of the soap,
a spontaneous change takes place in the condition of the
paste, which forms into small grains interspersed with ley.
‘When the separation is complete, which is known by the
ley freely separating from the soap, the operation is finished.
The stirring is, however, kept up for half an hour or longer,
so that the separation may be perfect throughout the mass.
If “leys of coction” cannot be had, dissolve from 50 to
60 Ibs. of salt in about 75 gallons of new ley at 15° to
18° B. The effect will be the same, but the leys will con-
tain an excess of salt. The employment of the former is
to be preferred whenever it is possible to obtain them ;
75 gallons of such ley at 20° to 25° B., or the same quan-
tity of new ley, after the addition of salt, are sufficient to

* «Toys of coction,” or, as we should call them, ‘salted leys,” are
passed through the residuum of soda and lime left in the ley vats, which
separates any fatty matter they contain, and renders them clear. The
leys are passed repeatedly through filters which are richer in soda, and
thus acquire additional strength.
