MISCELLANEOUS PROCESSES. 177

about 60° F., add 1 Ib. per cent. of liquid ammonia of
about ‘880°, and 1 lb. per cent. of the strongest solution of
caustic potassa; these are to be added gradually, and well
mixed by stirring until perfectly combined. Dissolve
15 to 18 per cent. of resin by boiling it with’a solution
of carbonate of potassa and soda in equal parts, or as
much as will give the solution a specific gravity of or
about 1,800° when boiling hot. Mix these perfectly with
the stearic or margaric acids and carbonated alkali;
then add a strong solution of caustic potassa or soda,
until perfect saponification is produced. The dose of
caustic alkali will much depend upon the purity of the
stearine or margarine employed. The separation is now
effected by using common salt or sulphate of soda as
usual. Ifthe soap is to be colourless, no resin must be
employed, and a larger dose of liquid ammonia and caustic
alkali must be used according to the dryness of the stearine
to be operated upon.

2. White curd soap is dissolved in about one-third of its
weight of water, to which is added colophony (black resin),
carbonate of soda, and alum. For this purpose the resin
(at the rate of 25 per cent. of the quantity of soap) is
dissolved with about 6 per cent. of carbonate of soda of
commerce to the resin employed, using about a like weight
of water as there is of the resin. These matiers being
boiled together till the resin and alkali are dissolved,
the compound is to be added to the dissolved soap, and
the whole of the matters are to be boiled till the workman
on taking a sample finds that the soap is hard and smooth,
as is well understood by soap-boilers. To this compound
is to be added a quantity of sulphate of alumina (common
alum) with a view to improve the colour, say from about
2 to 4 per cent. of the tallow or oil and resin in the

‘ mixture, using more or less of the alum according as the
resin is less or more pure. The whole compound is to be
boiled up, and then allowed to stand from two to four hours.
In order to prevent the resin precipitating, a quantity of
dilute sulphuric acid is introduced and stirred into the
above mixture. The strength of each solution of acid

N
