220 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

purer and more concentrated glycerine of better colour
than usual is obtained. The alkalinity of the liquor is
at the same time neutralised by a suitable acid.

The inventors remark, “A very convenient method of
effecting our invention, so as to obtain these two results,
ie. the tanning of the albuminous matters and the
neutralisation of the alkalinity, is to use the waste liquor
resulting from the bleaching of tallow or other fats or oils
(chrome liquor ?). For a ley such as the above we may
add the bleaching liquor in the proportion of, say, 1 to
8 gallons for every 100 gallons of original ley ; but this
must depend entirely on the strength and colour of the
ley. When treating highly-coloured leys, we add a pro-
portion of free chromic acid to the waste liquor, which,
by the oxidation and destruction of the colouring matters,
is reduced to a salt of chromium sesquioxide capable of
removing the albuminous matters as above.”’

The quantity of chromic acid will necessarily vary, but
for the above quantity of ley we should say about half a
pound of bichromate of potash added to a mixture of
three-quarters of a pound of sulphuric acid in 2 lbs. of water,
and add this mixture in the proportion of 5 Ibs. to 20 lbs.
to every 100 gallons of ley, according to circumstances.
We now treat the liquor with a small excess of calcium
carbonate (say, for example, 1 to 2 gallons “cream of
whiting ” to 100 gallons of ley), and maintain at a boiling
temperature for a short time. This precipitates the whole
of the chromic salts, and neutralises any slight proportion
of acid remaining. The chromic oxide contained in the
resulting. precipitate can be recovered for another opera-
tion in any suitable and well-known manner. The re-
sultant liquor obtained by removing the precipitate by
subsidence or filtration will be found clear and almost
colourless. It is then concentrated by further evaporation,
which causes the gradual separation of the salt, Thich can,
be again used in the manufacture of soap.

The crude glycerine finally obtained is of greater purity
and better colour than usual.

M, Victor Clolus’s Method.—To effect a separation of
