MANUFACTURE OF HARD SOAPS, 61

tion of the materials and the alkali is effected. The steam
being now turned off, the mass is allowed to rest for about
six hours, when the spent ley is drawn off and fresh ley is
then added, and the boiling resumed and continued ‘for
about three hours. After repose for six hours, the ley is
again drawn off, and fresh ley run into the pan. The
various boilings with fresh leys are continued daily until
the soap has acquired the proper consistence, which is ascer-
tained by the soap-boiler pressing a sample previously
cooled between his finger and thumb. If the soap divides
into hard flakes, it is finished, or nearly so; but if greasy,
sticky, and soft, it requires further boiling with fresh ley.
If the soap sample is satisfactory, boil briskly for a short
time, and then turn off the steam, and throw in a few
pails of cold water. After about two hours, the ley is to
be drawn off as before. This being done, six or eight pails
of water are added and well stirred in, and the boiling
briskly pursued. If from samples taken from the paste
the ley runs off clear, more water is to be added, and the
boiling continued. If it does not separate from the ley, an
excess of water is present, and a small quantity—about
half a pailful—of strong brine must be added.

Finishing—One of the most important and delicate
parts of the operation is that of finishing the soap. When
the, soap has been properly fitted, as above, it will cling to
the shovel or trowel and have a gelatinous texture. This
being the case, the soap is properly finished. Sometimes,
in order to give the soap a bright yellow colour, a little
raw (that is, unbleached) palm-oil is added. This oil, while
imparting an agreeable odour to the soap, is believed to
disguise in some degree the natural odour of the resin.

A quicker process for making yellow soaps than the
former is performed in the apparatus known as Papin’s
digester. Thé following gives the proportion of goods and
ley employed in this process :—

 
 
  

White tallow ....c.seeceeee eeceesecaeeees 800 Ibs.
Palm-oil ...... ~. 200 ,,
Resin (powdered) ..- 400 4,
Caustic soda ley at 26° Be wo... esses cere 175 gallons.
