21z THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

tion may be treated as before, and the chrome again
recovered.

Purifying Oils.— Fish oils may be purified by first boil-
ing them with a weak caustic soda ley about half a pound
of the alkali dissolved in half a gallon of warm water to
each ton of oil. This being well stirred into the oil, half
a pound of sulphuric acid diluted with six times its weight
of water is then added, the whole being boiled by steam
for about a quarter ofan hour. After about an hour’s rest
the liquid is run off from the bottom of the vat, and the
operation of bleaching commenced. 4 lbs. of bichromate
of potassa dissolved in hot water is first introduced, and this
is immediately followed by adding 2 Ibs. of sulphuric acid
diluted as before ; and after steam has been blown through
the oil for a short time 1 Ib. of nitric acid diluted with
1 quart of water is introduced, and the boiling continued
for half an hour longer. The oil is then to be well washed
with boiling water, and then allowed to rest until all the
liquid matters have subsided.

All fixed vegetable oils and also fats may be purified
and decoloured by means of chromic acid, but the opera-
tion is more effective when a solution of bichromate of
potassa and either dilute sulphuric acid or hydrochloric
acid are mixed during the process, when the alkali, being
attacked by the acid, sets the chromic acid free. Melted
kitchen-stuff and other rank fatty matters may be greatly
improved, both in smell and colour, by judicious treatment
with small quantities of bichromate and any mineral acid,
but in order to remove the traces of green oxide of chro-
mium which are apt to remain in fatty matters containing
a considerable amount of stearine, it is advisable to well
wash the bleached fat by the free use of steam or by
means of boiling water, and the vessel in which the opera-
tions have been conducted should be well covered with
sacking so as to retain the heat as long as possible, and
thus facilitate the subsidence of the green liquor.

In the purifying of fish and other oils chloride of lime,
made into a thin creamy mass, has frequently been em-
ployed, with the addition of dilute sulphuric acid. About
