OLEIC ACID SOAPS, or

Fitting the Soap.—This is accomplished by running into
the pan from 100 to 125 gallons of the ley used in the separa~
tion, marking 6° or 7° B. The pan is again heated, and
when the soap begins to boil, the grains expand, and
become more viscid and elastic. The boiling is allowed
to proceed gently, and occasionally a few pails of
water are spread over the surface of the mass.. After four
or five hours’ boiling the soap assumes a more homogeneous
condition, having lost its granular form, and is in clots or
lumps, interspersed with ley. The strength of the ley is
now tested, which is done by drawing off a little of the
ley, and placing it aside to cool. If the ley marks from
16° to 18° B., the operation is complete. If below the
former mark, the boiling must be continued until the ley
indicates the above density, otherwise the soap will be too
soft. On the other hand, if the ley has a density of more
than 18° or 12° B., the soap will be too hard. In the
latter case, water must be added to reduce the strength of
the ley.

The soap being now finished, the pan is covered up, so
as to retain the heat as long as possible, by which the leys,
together with all impurities, gradually and effectually sub-
side, leaving the purified soap above. The soap is allowed
to rest in the pan for at least twelve hours, when the lid is
raised, and the scum carefully removed from the surface.
It is then ready for cleansing, in the usual way. To insure
an uniform condition of the soap, it is crutched in the frames
until it has become cool and stiff.

' Sometimes, in making soaps with oleic acid as an in-
gredient, the tallow, or other fatty matters are saponified
separately, and afterwards mixed with the oleic soap by
crutching in the frames, and if it is desired to give a
slight perfume to the soap to disguise the characteristic
odour of the oleic acid, a small quantity of nitro-benzol
may be crutched in with the soap, which communicates to
it the odour of oil of bitter almonds.

A very convenient steam-jacket pan for making soap by
the above process, or, indeed, for other systems of saponifica-
tion, is that designed by Mr. Morfit (Fig. 18). is the
