CHEAPENED SOAPS. . 109

proportions of the detergent. mixture and allowing them
to cool. After well-crutching the soap and. detergent
mixture, the compound. soap is put.into the ordinary
frames. Bice ole loos 0

China Clay (Kaolin} in Soap.—The introduction. into
soaps of solid ingredients which possess no detergent
properties.in themselves, cannot..be commended, neither
should this system of adulteration be encouraged by. soap-
makers, whose success in the manufacture of soap depends
upon their reputation:for honesty. If the public . will,
however (as they certainly do in the present age of adul-
teration), encourage cheap. and worthless goods in .prefer-
ence to genuine articles, even the. most scrupulous must
yield tothe demand. |:.. .. | ., a t

Douglas’s “improvements ” in the manufacture of seap
consists in combining -any variety of clay with. soap; the
most approved substance, however, is Aaodin, or China clay
(a silicate of alumina), which abounds extensively in, some
districts in Cornwall. The -clay is placed in a yessel,
heated by steam or otherwise, and worked up into a paste
with water; the clay being in the proportion of about 25
per cent. of the mass. Heat being applied, the mixture of
clay and water is effected by constant stirring. To this is
then added a saturated solution of salt in the-propottion
of about one-twentieth part of the whole. The proportion
of the above mixture.to be added to melted soap is regu-
lated by the requirements of the manufacturer—the mtmost
extent being 50 per cent. of the clay. Persons of peculiar
fancy use these argillacegus soaps for toilet purposes. .

Fuller’s Earth Soap.—Of all the solid matters. which
have been mechanically, combined with soap, the, mineral
substance known as fuller’s earth is undoubtedly the
best. Moreover, being in itself a detergent, its combina-
tion with soap partakes less of. the character of a mere
adulterant than other argillaceous (or.clayey) substances.
Indeed, long before soap was known, this substance was
employed as a cleansing medium. ..

It is nearly twenty. years since the duthor.introduced
into the market a combination of soap and fuller’s earth,

ce
