204 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING,

Since pure soap is entirely soluble in alcohol, any in-
soluble colouring matter which may have been introduced
into the soap may readily be separated, and, if desirable,
examined by ordinary chemical tests.

Rampel’s Method of Assaying Soaps.—1. The analysis
of soaps does not present any more difficulty, and may be
done in as little time and with as much precision as that
of alkalies. 2. There is no necessity for analyzing marbled
soap, for it cannot be adulterated ; an excess of water would
precipitate the marbling, and the introduction of foreign
substances would prevent its formation. 3. For the white
or unicoloured soaps, 7.c. manufactured according to the
Marseilles method, the quantity of water is determined by
the usual process. The soap in thin shavings is submitted
to a temperature of 212° F. The soap is weighed
before and after drying, the difference in weight giving
the proportion of water. One drachm dissolved in 2 ounces
of hot water indicates, by the limpidity of the solution,
if the soap has been manufactured by liquefaction. If the
solution is muddy, this effect is due to the presence of
resin. Liquefied soaps do not require furthér analysis,
for they can contain neither insoluble nor inert substances.
4. Unicoloured, white, or other liquefied soaps mixed
with resin, manufactured by saponification and evapora-
tion, always produce muddy solutions. 5. To ascertain
the presence and quantity of insoluble substances con-
tained in soap, the process is simple and easy. Introduce
into a small test-tube a few grains of soap, and heat it
with about ten times its weight of alcohol. The solution
is soon completed if there is no insoluble impurity ; if, on
the contrary, a deposit is left, it is to be well washed
several times with alcohol, and weighed after drying. Its
weight indicates the quantity of insoluble substances in
the soap.

When the proportion of water and insoluble matter
has been ascertained, the operator has approximately
determined the value of the soap. Indeed, if the soap
has given 80 or 34 per cent. of water, and 1 or 2 per cent.
of insoluble matter, it is certain that the soap contains 6
