4 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING. |

were spurned, and their attempts to improve the crude
art were foiled in every possible way. There were, how-
ever, a few exceptions to the general rule (of thumb),
and several large firms—notably the firm of Benjamin,
William, and Thomas Hawes, of Lambeth—who dared to
admit the teachings of science within their portals. Not
only did these manufacturers encourage improvements
based upon chemical principles, but they also employed
chemists in their works, who, furnished with a laboratory
and appliances, soon converted the operation of soap--
making into an art, in the proper sense of the term. The
estimation of the actual amount of alkali in a given
sample of soda-ash was determined by their own chemist,
in many instances indicating a wide difference when com-
pared with the analysis of the alkali-broker’s chemist.
All “ goods” were subjected to examination by the soap-
maker’s analyst before purchase, and thus the intelligent
manufacturer was protected from fraud and imposition,
which gave him an incalculable advantage over his un-
aided competitors.

Although the great French chemist, Chevreul, had
clearly explained the nature of the reactions which take
place when fatty substances are treated with boiling
solutions of caustic alkali, few soap-makers would venture
to modify their antiquated system of manufacture by
calling to their aid the man of science. The soap-
maker’s argument seemed to be: “ My soap has a large
sale, it yields a good profit; what more can I require?”
If the chemist told him that he was liberating a large
portion of glycerine, which flowed away with his waste
leys into the river or sewer, instead of being recovered,
and he was thereby losing a large sum annually, the
soap-maker cared not, for he still had a good profit on his
soaps.

In 1886, the author’s father, the late Mr. Charles
Watt, patented his now well-known process for bleaching
palm-oil by means of chromic acid; but it was not until
several years after that soap-makers “took up” the
process and adopted it. So great was the prejudice against
