184 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

resinous and fatty matter, instead of only one-third or
one-fourth as usual.

This soap is said to preserve its quality and hardness
better than ordinary resin soaps, does not become unduly
dry and brittle, and also possesses the advantage that
while in most laundry soaps a large portion is wasted
because of their extreme solubility, which causes them to
dissolve to a greater extent than is required for the
strictly detersive purposes, the soap produced by the
above process is said to last longer, besides being also
cheaper.

Mr. G. Payne’s Process consists in treating fatty or
oily matters and subjecting the same, under pressure, in
an autoclave with lime and water.

After the decomposition of the fatty or oily matter in
the autoclave, the aqueous solution of glycerine is with-
drawn, and instead of decomposing ‘the lime soap with
acids, as in the ordinary process of making stearine, the
inventor employs for its decomposition strong caustic soda
or potash leys, or a solution of carbonate of soda or potash.
The hydrated or carbonate solution is used in about the
proportion of 7 per cent. of the alkaline base to from 60 or
70 per cent. of the fatty acid, these proportions being
varied within certain limits; in all cases care must be
taken that the alkali shall be sufficient to combine with or
saturate the whole of the fatty acid. The decomposition
of the lime soap by means of the hydrate or carbonate of
soda will result in the production of a soda soap, and where
the hydrate or carbonate of potash is used for such decom-
position the product will be potash soap, the lime in either
cease being precipitated in a more or less insoluble condi-
tion. The soaps obtained by this process may be finished
in a soap-copper in the ordinary manner.

Mr. Bankmann’s Process has for its object to furnish soap
in the form of thin perforated sheets or tablets, so that a
single piece may be torn off for each washing of the hands
or face. A number of frames are placed one above another,
and are securely fastened together in such a manner that
the joints are water-tight. The soap to be treated is put
