MANUFACTURE OF HARD SOAPS. 45

depends upon the degree of sulphuration of the ley. To
combine the sulphate of iron with the paste the mixture
is well stirred for a few minutes ; under the action of the
soda, the iron is decomposed, forming an oxide of iron.
The chemical union of this oxide with the sulphuret of
sodium, which always exists in the leys of crude soda,
produces the colouring principle of the marbling of the

soaps.

th order to ensure an intimate combination of the fatty
matters with the ley, and also to give a good consistency
to the paste, from 25 to 30 gallons of soft ley at 25° B.
are added gradually, with constant stirring, and the boil-
ing continued for several hours. The pasting operation,
as it. is termed, generally occupies about fifteen hours,
when a perfectly neutral soap is obtained.

The separation of the soap is thus conducted. In
soap factories, to produce separation, they throw on the
soapy mass, by small quantities at a time, limpid re-
generated leys at 25° to 830° B. When these leys cannot
be had, new salted leys, at 20° to 25°, can be used, or a
solution of salt at 20°B. To obtain 25 gallons of salt
solution at 20°, 143 lbs. of salt are employed. When the
saponification is complete, and the paste has the required
consistence, it is watered with a sufficient quantity of old
and salted ley at 25° to 30°. To render the action of the
leys more thorough upon all the molecules of soap, a large
board is placed over the kettle, on which a man, provided
with a beater or crutch, stands to stir the mass continually,
from bottom to top, in such a manner that the ley brought
to the surface penetrates every portion of the soap. The
paste now separates into clots or curds, and, if the ley
runs off freely from the shovel or trowel, it is known that
the separation is complete. The soap is then allowed to
rest, when the ley slowly subsides, After a few hours the
ley is drawn off, which consists of from 175 to 188
gallons of ley at 17° or 18° B. This ley, after being
.passed over an old residuum of soda exhausted by wash-
ing with water, is used in the operation of mottling.

The next operation is called coction (boiling), by which
