CHEAPENED SOAPS. 103

says the patentee, “for the production of compound soap,
bY mixing genuine soap with viscous solution of soluble
glass, I ascertain previously the highest temperature at
which the mixture of such genuine soap, with the propor-
tion of the viscous solution employed, will become too thick
to admit of its flowing from such mixing apparatus. I then
prefer to make a preparatory mixing, by means of paddles
or crutches, of the genuine soap with the viscaus solution
employed, in such a tub or vessel as will contain about
half a ton of soap, adding the soap and viscous solution at
such a temperature as will yield a mixture having a mean
temperature about ten degrees higher than the previously
ascertained temperature before referred to.”

The mixture is now introduced into the mixing apparatus,
the shaft of which is then set in motion, and when the
incorporation of the silicate and soap is complete, the
sliding stopper is withdrawn, and the contents of the
vessel allowed to flow out, and be conveyed to the frames.
During the rotary crutching, or mixing of one batch,
‘further quantities of the soap and silicate are allowed to
undergo the preparatory process of mixing as before.

Another modification of the former processes consists in
mixing the soluble glass, in a viscous state, with soap
made by combining fatty matters with leys, containing
such a proportion of alkali in solution as will be sufficient
to perfect the conversion of the fatty or resinous matters
into soap in one operation (as in Kottula’s process), without
necessitating the removal of exhausted leys, and adding a
further quantity of ley to complete the saponification.

The following is another process, formerly patented
by Mr. Gossage :—60 cwt. of palm-oil, or tallow, and
20 cwt. of resin are melted together, or either of the fol-
lowing formule may be used if preferred, namely, 30 cwt.
palm-oil or tallow, and 380 ewt. of oleic or stearic acid ;
or 80 ewt. of palm-oil or tallow and 30 cwt. of cocoa-nut
oil, 30 cwt. of any of the above mixtures of fatty or
resinous matters, in a melted state, and at a temperature
of about 150° Fahr., is added to a mixture consisting of
80 cwt. of solution of silicate of soda at a specific gravity
