222 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

part is precipitated and is eliminated by means of a tur-
bine. The bicarbonate is transformed into carbonate by
calcination. The glycerine liquid which leaves the tur-
bine is treated as before. If it is desired to obtain
glycerine more free from salt, the operation is performed
as follows :—The glycerine concentrated by air blown into
it, or in racuo, is treated with hydrochloric acid added in
excess, either in a gaseous state or as aliquid. Sea-salt,
being almost insoluble in an excess of hydrochloric acid,
will be precipitated in fine crystals, and is eliminated by
means of a turbine. The excess of hydrochloric acid then
contained in the glycerine is eliminated either by blowing
air into the same or by an excess of oxide of lead.

Benno, Jappé, and Co.’s Method.—According to: this
process the inventors do not use common salt for separating
the soap from the ley, but employ in lieu thereof an
alkaline sulphate. The alkaline sulphates, . especially
the sulphate of soda, act upon the soapy liquor in
the same manner as common salt, but there will be no
difficulty in subsequently separating such sulphate from
the glycerine. The spent ley obtained in eliminating the
soap by means of sulphate of sodium has an alkaline re-
action, and is, therefore, first neutralised by the addition
of hydric-sodic sulphate ; it is then filtered and ultimately
evaporated. In the process of neutralising the spent ley
the hydric-sodic sulphate is transformed into sulphate of
soda by the caustic soda contained in the spent ley.
When the liquid is evaporated the sulphate of soda sepa-
rates in crystals, and is thus recovered as a bye-product.
The sulphate of soda, which has been introduced for the
purpose of separating the soap from the ley, is also sepa-
rated, and if properly purified can be used again for
eliminating soap from the ley. The liquid remaining
after the crystallisation is glycerine containing a slight
proportion of impurities, and can be further purified in
the usual manner, as for instance by distillation.
