26 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

air, when shaken up, more readily than pure olive-oil. If
5 per cent. of any other oil be present, the consolidation is

slower and less firm, but if 12 per cent. of foreign oil be

mixed with it, this floats on the surface for several days.

Oils of poppy, sesame, rapeseed, or cocoa-nut may be.
thus recognised when mixed with olive-oil.

Tallow is chiefly obtained from the fat of sheep and
oxen, the tallow being first rendered, as it is technically
called—that is, separated from the membranous matter with
which it is associated in the form of suet. The rendering
of tallow is accomplished in various ways: by first re-
ducing the suet to small pieces, and then passing a current
of steam through it by means of perforated piping, or by
the method patented by the late Mr. Charles Watt, in
1886, which consists in adding to the fat, while in the
steaming tub, dilute sulphuric acid, to which a little nitric
acid is added, and a small quantity of bichromate of pot-
ash. When the lumps of fat are nearly dissolved, about
one pound of nitric acid, diluted with one quart of water,
is poured into the tub, followed, shortly after, by about
two qunces of alcohol, the whole being briskly stirred in.
When this process was first introduced, for the operations
of the tallow-melter, it was found that candles made from
the tallow, thus treated, required no storing,as itwas termed.
In those days candles were frequently stored for several
months before being considered fit for lighting purposes.
The object of the process was to destroy the tissues sur-
rounding the fat, which steam alone did not accomplish.

London, or “ town,” tallow is generally considered the.
best material of its kind, but Russian, South American,
and, in later years, Australian tallows enter the market
in large quantities.

Fats or greases of various kinds, other than tallow, are
also largely employed in soap-making.

Lard, or the fat of hogs, is extensively used, especially
by the French, in the manufacture of soaps. According
to Ure it is composed of 62 parts of oleine and 38 parts of
stearine in 100 parts, and its fusing point is 81° Fahr.

Palm-oil, which is stated to be used more extensively
