MANUFACTURE OF HARD SOAPS. 47

the ley ceases to taste caustic, which is generally after
seven or eight hours. A black foam or “fob” appears
on the surface, which only ceases when the materials are
completely saturated with alkali. The heat is now checked,
the mass allowed to rest for three or four hours, after
which the ley is drawn off. A second dose of 115 to 125
gallons of salted ley is now given, of a strength equal
to from 25° to 30° B., and the boiling resumed and kept
up for twelve to fifteen hours, with occasional stirring.
About every hour, during the first eight or ten hours,
about 5 gallons of ley, at 28° to 30°, are added to supply
the:place of the evaporated water and complete the satura-
tion of the soap. It is usually towards the close of this
boil that the operation is complete, the foam having dis-
appeared, and the soap is now stiff, clean, and dry, and
- furrowed by deep channels. The ley, though coloured, is
clear, and should be slightly caustic to the taste. If these
conditions are not fulfilled the ley must be drawn off, after
repose for two hours, and 75 galloris of salted ley at 28°
or 80° B. added, with further boiling for seven or eight
hours.

Mottling. —The next and last operation is termed mottling.
The soap having rested for an hour or two, tle last ley is
drawn off, and a pure ley, at 12° to 15° B., is sprinkled
over the surface of the soap with continual stirring, which
thus becomes of a somewhat softer consistence. A weaker,
pure ley, at 8° to 10° B., is then added and well stirred in, .
when the soap, which up to this time was in hard, granu-
lar, and curd-like lumps, becomes softer, the grains of
soap being more plastic and viscid. The operation is now
finished by boiling with leys at 5° or 6° B., which are
gradually introduced, otherwise the weaker ley would
spoil the adhesiveness of the soap. When the soap floats
on the ley in large flakes of a greenish colour it is known
that it is ready for the frames.

If the condition of the soap, with the above treatment,
is defective, it arises from one of two causes. 1. The
addition. of the cold leys has cooled the soap too much ;
or, 2, the soap contains an excess of saline matters. In
