1 BERGHART’S PROCESS, 121

._ The current of,air, or steam and air, is sometimes blown
into the space above the liquid fatty matter in the retort,
and when advisable it is blown direct into the melted fat.
The current of air has the effect of carrying over the fatty
acids in a more or less finely divided state, when they pass
into a chamber, or series of chambers, which are fitted
with partitions in such a way that the current, in passing
through them, deposits the solid fatty acids in the ordinary
way. :

‘When the fatty matters, as a printer’s grease, for
instance, contain alizarine or other colouring matters,
the fatty acids pass over from the retort, while the
alizarine or other colouring matter remains in the
retort, and is afterwards treated td separate any re-
maining fat from the colouring matter, which is thus
recovered. It is therefore important, when alizarine or
other colour is present, to avoid too high a temperature
in the distillation.

In making soap by this process, the vapour of the fatty
acids is passed direct into caustic or carbonate leys of soda
or potash, the strength of which depends upon the nature
of the fatty matter employed. Ifa slight excess of alkali
is used, the ordinary process of “salting” is not required.
The fatty acids are blown into the leys until the alkali
is nearly or about neutralised. The ley is by preference
contained in a closed tank, which communicates directly
with the outlet pipe of the retort. If necessary, the
fatty acids may be washed before being treated with ley,
in which case the vapours are allowed to pass into a
chamber containing water. The inventor prefers to
employ hot air and superheated steam in combination to
carry over the fatty acids into the ley, by which the soap
becomes boiled during its formation, and thus time is saved
in the operation. The air has an important effect in
aiding the chemical reaction, apart from its use as a
vehicle to carry over the fatty acids. The steam is used
principally to prevent the charring of the matters, and in
the making of the soap to assist in the boiling of the same.
By the employment of the high temperature, the fatty
