OLEIC ACID SOAPS. 93

operated upon at a time, since a profuse effervescence takes
place immediately after the alkali and fat acids come in
contact, whereby the volume of the materials is greatly
increased. Again, the alkali must be introduced (with
brisk stirring) very gradually, until the full proportion has
been given.

Oleic Acid Soaps,—In making these soaps it is the
practice to estimate the exact quantity of soda that will be
required to render a given weight of oleic acid neutral,
although a slight excess, and for some soaps a larger excess,
should be given. Sometimes, as in Morfit’s system, soda ash
is dissolved in the proper equivalent of water to form soda
crystals, or soda crystals are melted in their ‘own water of
crystallisation in a jacket-pan, by steam heat. Barilla,
kelp, bicarbonate of soda have also been used to neutralise
oleic acid, but there can be no doubt that the ordinary
soda crystals of commerce, in their fused or melted state,
are, from their comparative purity and convenience, to be
preferred to all other varieties of carbonate of soda.

The desired quantity of oleic acid being run into the
pan (which should be a jacketed pan heated by steam), a
moderate heat is applied, and the fused crystals allowed to
flow in gradually, with brisk stirring—which is more
effectually performed by the steam twirl of Morfit. The
heat and stirring must be kept up until the effervescence
ceases, and the mass assumes the condition of a homogeneous
paste. Ifa soap of greater firmness is required, dried or
effloresced soda may be used in place of a portion of the
fused crystals. The dried sal-soda is produced by passing
currents of hot air through the crystals until they fall into
a powder. Or finely-powdered and sifted soda ash may be
used for inferior oleic soaps, instead of the dried soda
crystals. In using the dry carbonate of soda, however,
it must be added after the fatty acid has been brought to
a paste with the portion of fused crystals employed.

If resin is to be introduced, the requisite proportion is
to be thrown into the previously heated fat acid, and the
stirring continued until the whole of the resin has melted,
after which the fused sal-soda is to be run in as described.
