168 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

Powdered Soaps.—All hard soaps may be reduced to a
fine powder, when perfectly dry, by trituration with a
pestle and mortar, but the operation is generally confined
to cosmetic soaps for shaving or other toilet purposes.
The soap, being previously perfumed in the usual way,
is cut into thin shavings, and these are laid upon sheets of
paper and placed in the drying-room, or dried in any
convenient way. As soon as the shavings become brittle
they are in a condition for powdering. Small quantities
at atime should be carefully reduced to a powder in a
mortar, and the powder afterwards passed through a fine
sieve, the fine powder being placed in a jar and kept well
covered. All coarser particles retained, by the sieve
should then be pulverised and sifted as before, until the
entire quantity is reduced to a powder fine enough to pass
through the sieve.

Although it is better to colour the soap in the ordinary
way before powdering it, the colouring matter may, if
preferred, be introduced into the mortar when the soap is
about half reduced to powder, and then worked up with
the soap until thoroughly incorporated. For rose-colour,
about one drachm of vermilion to each pound of soap
should be used. For yellow, from one to two drachms of
finely-powdered gamboge. Other shades of colour, how-_
ever, may be given if desired.

Powdered soaps, named after their respective perfumes,
are much esteemed as shaving soaps by the fastidious ;
and perhaps the so-called rose soap, perfumed with oil of
rose and tinted by vermilion, may be considered one of the
most delicate preparations, provided that it has been made
from a good white tallow soap free from cocoa-nut oil.

Shaving Paste.—This popular cosmetic may be pre-
pared in various ways, but the following formule may
be taken as representing the mode of manufacture : 1. Take
Naples soap, 1 lb.; Castile or Marseilles soap, $lb.; honey,
3lb.; essence of ambergris, oils of cassia and nutmeg, of
each 20 to 80 drops. Mix these ingredients well together
in a mortar, adding a little rose-water, until a perfectly
homogeneous paste is formel. 2. Take of white or virgin
