42 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

covered with sacks in cold weather, so that the soap may
cool slowly, upon which much of the beauty of the
“strike” or mottle depends.

It has been ascertained that three pounds of olive-oil
will yield five pounds of marbled Marseilles soap, whereas
the same amount of oil will only produce four pounds
four ounces of white soap, which proves that the former
retains more water in its composition than the latter.

French Marbled Soap.—Dussauce, in his admirable
“Treatise on the Manufacture of Soap,” gives an elaborate
description of the manufacture of marbled soaps, as con-
ducted .in France, from which we give the following
extracts :— °

“ Besides olive-oil, the earth-nut, sesame, linseed, cole-
seed, and black garden poppy-oils, greases, tallows, etc.,
are also used in the fabrication of marbled soaps ; but the
soap resulting from these different combinations of oily
and fatty matters, while being of good quality, cannot be
compared to those obtained by the direct saponification
oa olive-oil. The latter are always denser, firmer, and

mer.

“However, we may remark that the mixture of olive-
oils with other oils containing less stearine, gives, if not
the best, at least the finest kinds of marbled soap. They
are also more unctuous, and their cut is softer and
smoother, as they contain less stearate of soda than those
prepared from olive-oil,—they are more detersive and
more advantageous for use.

“The sodas employed for these soaps are of two kinds;
one, called soft soda, is the most alkaline; the other,
called salted soda, is composed of soft soda and common
salt. Well-prepared soft soda ought to be free from com-
mon salt; if is employed to produce the pasting in the
first operation. The salted sodas are a mixture of soft
soda and salt. The proportions of salt are from 30 to
40 per cent. of the weight of soda. Their alkalimetric
degree is from 18 to 22 per cent. of pure alkali.

“Tn certain circumstances salted soda can be substituted.
by common salt; nevertheless, it ought to be remarked
