’

MANUFACTURE OF HARD SOAPS. 59

saponifying the fatty materials. It is commonly the
practice to first make the hard soap in the usual way, and
when the last charge of leys has been given, and when,
after the usual boiling, the ley ceases to be absorbed by
the soap, the desired quantity of resin is added gradually,
and it is an advantage to have it previously broken up
into small pieces. The proportion of resin varies from
one-third to one-fourth the weight of tallow, but of course
weaker goods will take less.

While the resin is being shovelled in, the boiling must.
be kept up, with also the addition of causticley. The soap
is examined from time to time by the soap-boiler, who freely
uses his shovel when he considers that the combination of
the resin with the soap is near completion. When a
sample of the paste, after being allowed to cool, is firm and
solid, and exhibits a good gram or “feather” when cut,
the soap is finished. The heat being checked by turning
off the steam, the soap is allowed to rest, after which the
leys are drawn or pumped out, and the process of
purifying the paste is next resorted to, whereby all
impurities of the resin and other materials are deposited
below the surface of the soap. For this purpose a quantity
of ley at 8° B. is run into the pan, and the steam again
turned on, the soap being well stirred for some time with
the rake and the boiling kept up for awhile, after which
the soap is again allowed to rest, and the ley again pumped
out.

A. second service of leys at 4° B. is now given, and the
boiling and stirring renewed, after which the leys are again
allowed to settle, and are then drawn off. <A final service
of very weak leys at 2° B. is now introduced, the stirring
and boiling being resumed as before, when the operation is
finished. After a long rest the leys subside, and a skin
forms over the surface of the soap, which is skimmed off
before running the soap into the frames, and put aside to
be worked up with future batches.

In small works the soap is ladled out of the pans into
large iron pails by means of a ladle having a very long
wooden handle (Fig. 11). This ladle is of considerable
