INTRODUCTION. 3

Having passed through a long period of rude and un-
scientific manipulation, the art of soap-making at last—
namely, at the beginning of the present century—com-
manded the attention of scientific men, and the world was
startled first by Leblano’s splendid process for the manu-
facture of soda from common salt, which process was
practically developed in this country by the late
Mr. James Muspratt, of St. Helen’s, near Liverpool.
The advantages of this invention are far beyond estima-
tion, and although it has since been superseded to a
certain extent by the ammonia process, if can never be
forgotten that its introduction did more for. the soap
and glass manufacturer than any other invention under
the sun.

The next great discovery, though not second in im-
portance, was due to another French chemist—Chevreul—.
who raised soap-making from empiricism and rule-of-
thumb guesswork to its present exalted position as a
truly scientific art. With the rapid advance of chemical
knowledge which followed the discoveries of Davy,
Dalton, Chevreul, and other English and foreign chemists,
the art of soap-making gradually improved, and many
saponifiable substances were introduced from time to
time, until, at the present day, the lengthy list includes
oils and other fatty matters which were never dreamed of
by our forefathers. It would not be incorrect, however,
to say that up to forty years ago soap manufacture was
generally conducted without any reference to scientific
principles or chemical theories. Except in very rare
instances, the aid of science was never consulted, and the
operations were frequently carried on by persons abso-
lutely void of even the rudiments of chemical know-
ledge. Indeed, the manufacturers were so completely in
the power of their soap-boilers that any attempt to recog-
nise an improvement, by giving it a fair trial, was
invariably opposed and frustrated by the so-called “ prac-
tical man.” At the time we refer to, the prejudice
against chemical interference, if we may so call it, was so
great, that even scientific men of the highest ability
