14 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

considerable heat is generated over and above the actual
temperature of the materials when placed in contact.
Although saponification is hastened by the process of
boiling, it is not advisable to apply vigorous boiling in
the earlier stages of the operation. On the contrary, it is
found better in practice to allow the boiling to be gentle
at first, and to increase its rapidity toward the close of the
operation, or when the materials have absorbed their full
percentage of alkali.

Although it is practically impossible to make soap with-
out liberating a portion of the fatty matters as glycerine, ©
this soluble substance may be recovered, as a valuable by-
product, by either of the processes hereafter described. The
proper strength of leys, their gradual combination with
the various fatty bodies with which they come in contact,
and the slow and gentle augmentation of the boiling
operation while saponification is progressing, are im-
portant considerations, upon which too much care cannot’
be bestowed. Indeed, it is gratifying to know that of
late years some of our leading soap-makers have devoted
much attention to alkalimetry, and the treatment of
various fats and. oils with alkaline leys of appropriate
strength, according to the nature of the fatty matter to
be used. The examination, by analysis, of samples from
various boils of soap enables the manufacturer not only
to regulate his mode of working, but also to determine
the intrinsic value, so to speak, of his productions.

In making what are called “fitted soaps,” the ingre-
dients are boiled into a thin liquid mass, or emulsion,
during the first operation, after which a second dose of
ley, as also a considerable quantity of common salt, are
introduced into the pan for the purpose of “cutting the
pan,” as it is termed, by which the soap separates. from
the ley and salt, and rises to the surface, while most of the
impurities and foreign matters subside with the ley. If
the materials are not sufficiently saponified and purified,
the ley is pumped out and fresh ley introduced, with
further boiling, and the mass is again “cut,” or separated,
by the addition of weaker ley and salt, the operation
