120 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

process is 200 Ibs. of soap for every 100 Ibs. of grease
employed. -

The process is stated to be applicable to making any
kind of soap, including soft soap, which is prepared with
the same rapidity as any other, without requiring the use
of so much potash as in the ordinary Pe

Mr. G. W. Rogers’s Process.—By another process,
namely, that of Mr. G. W..Rogers of Lancaster, N. Y.,
soap is made under pressure at a low temperature, instead
of the high temperature adopted in the above and similar
systems, by which the inventor states there is a saving of
time, inasmuch as the soap can be made in from fifteen to
twenty-five minutes, with complete saponification. By

‘this plan, moreover, the materials become ddeached, thus
enabling inferior goods to be employed in the manufacture.
The materials are mixed in a tank heated by steam, and
the mass thus prepared is run into an iron cylinder capable
of holding one or more tons, and subjected to a pressure of
about 400 Ibs. to the square inch by means of a force-
pump driven by steam. The mass is kept in this cylinder
until saponification is complete, when it is run into frames.
By this system any of the usual combinations of fatty
matters may be employed, and the product is said to be
both firm and translucent. It should be observed that in
both processes given carbonate of soda is used instead of
caustic soda, which also renders the employment of
common salt unnecessary.

New Process of Saponification.—M. Berghart has
patented a process by which animal or vegetable fats or
oils are distilled into caustic or carbonated leys of soda or
potash. The fatty matter is placed in a jacketed retort,
heated by high-pressure steam, or in a retort otherwise
heated to a temperature which will volatilise the oil or fat
without charring it. When the oil or fat begins to
volatilise, air or carbonic acid gas is blown into the
retort, which carries over the fatty acids, which are con-
densed in proper receivers. Atmospheric air alone, or in
combination with superheated steam, is preferred in carry-
ing out this part of the process.
