CHEAPENED SOAPS. °° TOL

of the carbonates of soda or potash in making the “soluble
glass,” in which case three parts of either sulphate are
substituted for two parts of either carbonate, and four
times the quantity of coke or charcoal above given.

Gossage subsequently found that silicated soaps could
be advantageously produced from pure soaps containing a
much larger proportion of resin than was usually employed
in the manufacture of hard soaps, whereby a very econo-

-mical and low-priced soap could be produced. In pre-
paring a genuine soap he used not less than one part of
resin for each two parts of tallow or oil, or a mixture of
both ; and when the soap had been fitted, and was ready
for cleansing, he introduced the viscous solution of soluble
glass in certain proportions, the specific gravity of which
should be about 1-500 (water being 1000), :

‘When manufacturing genuine soap, to be afterwards
converted into silicated soap, in wliich a larger proportion
of resin than six parts for each ten parts of tallow or oil,
or a mixture of each, is used, he prefers to finish the soap
as a “stiff curd,” in which state the viscous solution of
soluble glass is introduced. In mixing the soluble glass
with soap, it is recommended that the first portion of the
solution should be of the specific gravity of about 1:300,
and the remaining portions at increasing specific gravities,
until the whole quantity of the silicate solution averages
the specific gravity of 1:500.

Mixing Silicate of Soda with Soaps.—For effectually
mixing genuine soaps with silicate of soda, Mr. Gossage
employs certain apparatus, the simpler form of which is
represented in the drawing (Fig. 19). A circular tub, a,
having the form of an inverted cone, is fitted with a series of
blades projecting, 6d d, inside the vessel. A vertical shaft, B,
also furnished with a series of blades, ccc, is supported by
2 footstep, d, fixed at the bottom of the vessel, and by a
journal, adapted to a metallic bridge-piece, e, which is
fixed over the tub and secured by screw-bolts to its
sides. A bevelled cog-wheel is adapted to the upright
shaft, and a horizontal shaft, also provided with a bevelled
‘cog-wheel, and supported by suitable bearings, is attached
