CHAPTER XXVIII.

USEFUL NOTES AND TABLES.

Pickling Soap.—The‘Oleometer.—Aluminate of Soda.—Determination of
Resin in Soap.—Detection of Resin in Soap.—Cheap Almond Soap.
Analyses of Soft Soaps.—Potato-flour in_ Soft Soap.—Saponi-
fication of Neutral Fatty Bodies by Soap.—Jellifying.—Twaddell’s
Hydrometer.—Causticising Soda—Soda Soft Soap.— Half-palm Soap.
—Adulteration of Commercial Silicate of Soda Soaps for Calico-
printers.—Fulling Soaps.—Table showing the Percentage of Soda
in’ Caustic Ley.—Table showing the Percentage of Anhydrous Caustic
Potash in Caustic Ley.—Comparative French and English Ther-
mometer Scales.—Table showing the Specific Gravity corresponding
with Baumé’s Hydrometer (Liquids denser than Water) Table
showing the Specific Gravity corresponding with the Degrees of
Baumé’s Hydrometer (Liquids lighter than Water).—Table of
Essential Oils.—Fusing and Congealing Points of Fats and Oils.—
Kirten's Table.—Boiling-points of some Volatile Oils.—Boiling-
points of Caustic Alkaline Leys.—Table showing the Quantity of
Caustic Soda in Leys of different Densities (Water 1000).—Table of

the Mechanical Power of Steam.

Pickling Soap.—Under this attractive heading we may
state that some very competitive soap-makers have occa~
sionally adopted a plan of artificially hardening the
surface of soap containing an infinitesimal proportion of
fatty matter by soaking it for a few hours in a strong
solution of common salt. The soap bars (which require
careful handling!) are gently deposited in the strong
brine, where they are allowed to remain until the surface
is sufficiently indurated, after which they are quickly
rinsed and then submitted to the drying-room for a short
time. By this method the soap assumes a virtue which it
does not possess.

The Oleometer.—This very useful instrument, for ascer-
taining the density of fixed oils, is thus described by Mr.
Cooley :—-‘‘ A delicate areometer or hydrometer, so
weighted and graduated as to adapt itself to the densities
of the leading fixed oils. As the differences of the specific
