132 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

is said to want strength; or if. the opaque fringe first
appears and then vanishes, it is said to have false strength,
and indicates that the saponification is incomplete.
Scotch Soft Soap.—A considerable quantity of soft soap
ig made in Scotland, and; according to Ure,* the following
process is that generally adopted :—“ 278 gallons of whale
or cod oil, and 4 ewt. of tallow, are put into the Soap-pan,
with 250 gallons of ley from American potash, of such
alkaline strength that one gallon contains 6,600 grains of
real potash. Heat being applied to the bottom pan, the
mixture froths up very much as it approaches the boiling
temperature, but is prevented” from boiling over by being
beaten down on the surface, within the iron curb or crib
which surmounts the caldron. Should it soon subside
into a doughy-looking paste, we may infer that the ley
has been too strong. Its proper consistence is that of a
thin glue. _We should now introduce ahout 42 gallons of
a stronger ley, equivalent to 8,700 grains of potash per
gallon, and after a short interval an additional 42 gallons ;
and thus successively, till nearly 600 such gallons have
been added in the whole. After suitable boiling, to
saponify the fats, the proper quality of soap will be
obtained, amounting in quantity to 100 firkins of 64 lbs.
each from the above quantity of materials. It is generally
supposed, and I believe it to be true, from. my own
numerous experiments upon the subject, that it is a more
difficult and delicate operation to make a fine soft soap of
glassy transparency, interspersed with the figged granu-
lations of stearate of potash, than to make a need soap of
any kind.”
here can be ro doubt whatever that considerable
judgment and caution must be exercised in the boiling of
soft soaps, and in determining the exact time when the
fire should be drawn or the steam turned off, as the case
may be; and when this period has arrived, it is important
that the further evaporation of water from the ley should
be checked not only by turning off the steam, but, if con-
venient, by introducing into the soap-copper a sufficient
* “Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures, and Mines,”
