124 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

dissolve, but without boiling. If it is not sufficiently hard
when dissolved, brine is to be added until it becomes quite
thick. The novelty of this process consists “in the use
of caustic potash, and dissolving and warming up the
soap a second time without boiling it.”

Lumbarton’s Process consists in saponifying fatty
matters by boiling them with an alkaline mixture com-
posed. of carbonate of soda, quicklime, common salt, and
alum, the ingredients being mixed in the following pro-
portions :—Sub-carbonate of soda, 10 parts; quicklime,
10 -parts; alum, 1 part; common salt, 1 part. These,
being mixed with water, are added to the fatty matters,
and the whole well boiled, when, it is said, they will be-
come perfectly saponified. The soap produced by this
process contains all the glycerine, and the product will be
*‘a hard soap of very fine character; has no disagreeable
smell, and can consequently be used for toilet or ordinary
washing purposes.”

Mr. Symons’s Disinfecting Soap consists in adding to
ordinary soaps the disinfecting and deodorising substance
known as thymol or thymic acid, which is soluble in water,
in solutions of alkalies, &c., forming compounds which
are soluble in water. Its advantages over carbolie acid,
creosote, &c., are that it has no unpleasant taste or odour,
being very aromatic. Its solutions are “ strongly antisep-
tic, and possess disinfecting properties in a higher degree
than carbolic acid, and its weaker solutions do not act
cauterisingly but coolingly.”

Soaps made from Animal Refuse.—Although it is
well known that caustic alkalies will saponify animal
tissues, membraneous matters, and indeed all parts of
animals except the bone, this source of soap-making
material has not been much explored in this country. On
the Continent, however, some attention has been devoted
to this subject, and many processes devised for utilizin
slaughterers’ offal and butchers’ waste as soap meta
Some of these processes are given in Dussauce’s Treatise,
from which we make a few extracts :—

“Bernadet’s Process.—The intestines are deposited in
