METHODS OF ANALYZING OR ASSAYING SOAPS, 205

per cent. of alkali, and 60 per cent. of fatty acids, which
are the constant proportions of the marbled and pure
white liquefied soaps. If, on the contrary, the proportion
of water exceeds 35 per cent., or the insoluble matter 2
per cent., it is a certain proof that the soap has been
adulterated. In either case it is useless to determine the
proportions of fatty and inert substances that the soap
contains,

By burning a small quantity of soap and assaying the
residuum in the same manner as by the alkalimetric

rocess, the real quantity of alkali and inert substances
is determined at the same time. The alkalimetric assay
is not necessary; indeed, when soap is burned, the
residuum obtained contains all the fixed principles of the
soap, but instead of having the soda in a caustic state, as
in the soap, it exists in the form of a carbonate.

6. To ascertain the value of the soap as to the pro-
portions of fatty acids and base it contains the following
is recommended :—A given weight of soap in solution is
seempoeed by an acid ; the fatty acids float on the surface
of the liquid, and it is easy to collect them and determine
their weight. When they do not collect easily, they are
mixed with a known weight of white wax (previously
dried) which hastens their solidification. A cake is thus
obtained .which, when cold and dried, is weighed, the
weight of the wax used being deducted from the gross
weight of the cake. To obtain the proportion of alkali,
-calcine a given weight of the soap in an iron ladle; all
the soda becomes transformed into carbonate, and the real
quantity of the alkali is determined by the alkalimetric
test.

D’Arcet’s Method.—If preferred, D’Arcet’s system may
be adopted, which consists in dissolving 24 drachms of
soap in 2 ounces of hot water; from 1 to 24 drachms of

ure and dried white wax are then added, and the whole
oiled until the wax is melted, when the mixture is decom-
posed by the normal test-acid as in the ordinary alkali-
metric process. After cooling, the weight of the fatty acids
is determined by deducting the meigte of wax-used. By
