134 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

Resin in Soft Soaps.—In making soft soaps resin is
sometimes introduced to the extent of 5 or 10 per cent. of
the weight of the fatty materials used. The resin is
generally introduced into the pan in the form of a fine
powder, in the earliest part of the operation, whereby it
saponifies with the other ingredients or fatty matters,

Continental Methods.—The method adopted for intro-
ducing resin into this soap at Liege is, according to
Dussauce, as follows :—‘‘ When the soap is nearly done,
the quantity of resin required to be added is deposited in
a large sheet-iron caldron, pierced with holes like a
skimmer. This caldron is then immersed to three-
quarters of its height in the boiling soap. In contact
with the excess of iey contained in the soap the resin’
saponifies, and the resinous soap passes through the holes
of the caldron and combines intimately with the mass of
the soap in the kettle. This arrangement deserves to at-
tract the attention of manufacturers. When the saponi-
fication is finished, and when, by a well-managed evapora*
tion, the soap is well boiled, its natural colour is a
brownish-yellow. If this colour is required the heat is
stopped off, and, after resting a few hours, the soap is
drawn off into barrels open at one end. If, on the con-
trary, the soap is to be green, this shade is given to it by
adding a small quantity of indigo. To prepare this
colour, macerate for a few hours indigo of good quality in
boiling ley. After separating the ley, rub it in a mortar,
and pass it through a fine sieve. To colour the soap, add
a certain quantity of the paste to the soap, and incorporate
by good stirring.”

In Belgium and Holland soft soaps are made from
vegetable oils, with, sometimes, the addition of oleic acid,
tallow, or other animal fats. The following formula is
given for a soft soap of good quality :—Linseed-oil,
600 Ibs.; coleseed-oil, 800 lbs.; oleic acid, 200 lbs.
These materials are first put into the pan and heated
gently, and, when in a liquid state, 75 gallons of caustic
potash ley at 6° to 8° B. are added gradually, with con-
tinual stirring. The pan is then brought to a boil, and
