210 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

Instead of using hydrochloric acid, 40 lbs. of sulphuric
acid and 60 lbs. of common salt may be used. The
sulphuric acid is diluted with about twice its bulk of water,
and the salt, previously dissolved in cold water, is mixed
with the solution of bichromate of potassa in the proportion
given. Some persons, in bleaching palm-oil by the above
process, have been known to use as much as 40 lbs. of
bichromate to the ton, an excess not only extravagant but
unnecessary.

In bleaching palm-oil by the above process it is of great
importance that the temperature of the oil should not be
above 120° F., since the chemical action which takes
place after the introduction of the bichromate and acid
greatly augments the temperature of the oil, and when this

atter stands at a higher point than we have indicated the

bleached oil is liable to assume a brown or “ foxy ” colour.
The author has most successfully bleached palm-oil when
it has been almost at the point of congealing.

Recovery of the Chrome.—Although the recovery of the
most costly ingredient employed in the process of bleaching
palm-oil with chromic acid is not now, owing to the greatly
reduced price of bichromate of potassa, of such paramount
importance as it was formerly, there will be little difficulty
in showing that even now, where this salt is used exten-
sively, or even in moderate quantities, it will pay to save it
from the gutter. The process, which was originated by
Mr. Charles Watt, jun., may be described as follows :—
The “ green liquor” resulting from the bleaching of palm-
oil, and which is rich in oxide of chromium, is placed ina
wooden vat or tub. A quantity of slaked lime is worked
up with water into what is termed milk of lime, small quan-
titiesof which are added cautiously, with continual stirring,
to the green liquor, until all the free sulphuric or hydro-
chloric acid is saturated. No excess must be added, other-
wise the oxide of chromium will be precipitated. When
the saturation of the acid is complete the vessel is allowed
to rest for an hour or two, after which the liquid is trans-
ferred to another vessel, and milk of lime again added and
well stirred in, until the supernatant liquor is colourless,
