60 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

size, and in order to diminish its weight, when full of soap,
it is raised by means of a rope running in a pulley by a —
second man, while the first holds the handle of the ladle,
dips it into the soap, and guides it to the pail which is
rested upon the edge of the pan, and is carried when full
to the soap frames. To hasten the operation of filling the
frames, several men, each carrying his own pail, are
usually occupied when a “cleanse,” as it is termed, is
going on. In larger factories,- where the application of
steam is extensive, the finished soap is pumped out of the
coppers into wrought-iron “pots” (Fig. 8) running on
wheels, and which are also used for crutching in “liquor” of
various kinds; these pots, being wheeled up to the frames,
are emptied into them,.or the soap is pumped into iron or
wooden shoots, one end of which is slung on to the pump,
while the other rests on the upper edge of the soap
frame, and when the frame is full, the shoot is shifted
to the next, and so on.

Cleansing.—When cleansing yellow soaps, great care
is necessary to avoid removing, with the finer soap, the
dark-coloured compound called xiger, which forms a
stratum between the leys and the pale soap. This dark
brown soap derives its colour from the resin and impurities
in the ley, and although it possesses all the characteristics
of a good soap, is unsalable by itself as a commercial
article, and should therefore be worked up with other
lighter goods in the making of cheaper soaps.

Another formula for yellow soap is the following :—

Tallow ... see 2,000 Ibs.
Resin, about . eI

These being put into the pan, from 150 to 175 gallons
of soda ley at 10° to 20° B. are run in, and the steam turned
on. When the materials are melted, the pan is brought
to a boil, constant stirring being applied to prevent the
resin from adhering to the bottom and sides of the pan.
‘When the mass swells up excessively, the heat must be
checked. The boiling is continued for only about two or
three hours, owing to the rapidity with which the combina-

   
