To THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

into soap by treatment with alkali, will not form a hard
soap unless combined with a certain proportion of tallow,
which, during the process of saponification, exerts a
powerful influence upon its constituents, probably by
chemical action not yet fully understood.

Liebig’s Researches on Saponification.—Justus Liebig
—to whose original mind we are indebted for so many
valuable discoveries in organic chemistry—made some
important researches on the saponification of fatty bodies,
and his views should be well .understood by the. soap-
maker who recognises the value of scientifie knowledge in
the pursuit of his interesting art.

“Potassa and soda soaps,” says Liebig, “are readily
soluble in hot water and alcohol. The addition of a
quantity of water to the aqueous solution produces precipi-
tation, the neutral salts of stearic and margaric acid
decomposing into free alkali, which remains in solution,
and stearate and margarate of the alkali (potash or soda),
which precipitates in the form of pearly crystalline scales.
Potassa soaps are more soluble in water than those con-
taining soda. Stearate of soda may be considered as the
type of hard soaps, and when in contact with ten times as
much water it undergoes no striking change. Stearate of
potassa forms a thick paste with the same quantity of
water. Oleate of soda is soluble in ten parts of water,
while oleate of potassa dissolves in four parts of water,
forming a gelatinous mass with two parts, and possesses
such a strong affinity for water that 100 parts absorb 162
parts in a moist atmosphere. Margaric acid acts like
stearic acid. From this it follows that soaps are soft in
proportion to the oleates, ‘and hard in proportion to the
stearates and margarates, they contain. Soda ‘soap exhibits
a peculiar behaviour with common salt ; it loses the power
of being penetrated by ley or dissolving in a solution of
salt of a certain strength, and this remarkable action is an
important condition in its manufacture, on which depends
the separation of all free alkali and oxide of glyceryl

(glycerine), its percentage of water, and its marketable
condition.
