218 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

removed is very rich in glycerine, but it still retains
sensible quantities of chloride of sodium and other salts,
the presence of which may act injuriously in the subse-
quent applications of the glycerine to certain purposes.
These salts are separated by submitting the liquor, either
hot or cold, to the process of ‘“Osmose,” in an apparatus
known as the “ Osmogene,” such as is used in the separa-
tion of saline compounds from solutions of beet-root sugar.
By this process nearly all the salts are separated from the
glycerine. But as the latter becomes diluted with water
it may be concentrated by evaporation, when it will be
ready for the market as crude plycerine. .

O’Farrell’s Process.—The spent leys are evaporated
immediately they are drawn off from the soap-pan by fire
heat or dry steam applied by any suitable apparatus, till
a saturated aqueous solution of common salt is obtained,
and this saturated solution is used for the purpose of sepa-
rating the glycerine from a fresh portion or second charge
of soap, when the spent ley obtained from this fresh
portion or second charge is evaporated, and this is again
returned to the soap-copper for the purpose of separating ©
the glycerine from a third charge, and the ley obtained is
evaporated as before. The process is repeated until the
quantity of glycerine present in the solution is sufficiently
concentrated to be economically separated.

Having by this means obtained the maximum amount
of glycerine in the minimum volume of spent soap leys,
the inventor proceeds to evaporate the solution till as
much salt as possible crystallises out, when the glycerine
is dissolved out from the residue by means of methylated
spirit or other suitable liquid, or the glycerine may be
separated by distillation ix vacuo.

Thomas and Fuller’s Process.—The spent or par-
tially spent leys are first evaporated until nearly all the
salts are deposited; the resulting liquor, which is strongly
impregnated with glycerine, is then boiled with an excess
of fat or fatty acids, which readily combines with the
soda salts, and removes all salts which may be in suspen-
sion in the liquor. The solution is then filtered and sub-
