MANUFACTURE OF TOILET OR FANCY SOAPS. 155

The soap is next pounded in a marble mortar, by means of
a wooden pestle, the object of which is to convert the soap
into auniform mass. Onlya few pounds (about ten or twelve)
of soap are pounded ata time, lest it should become too
dry for the subsequent operation of balling, which is per-
formed somewhat as follows:—The soap is placed on one
end of a table on which is a marble slab, and in order
that an allowance may be made for the reduction of weight
which the soap has to undergo in the process of drying,
the balls or cakes of soap are made about 25 per cent.
heavier than the finished tablets. The directions for
making the soap into cakes of the proper size, weight,
and form for the pressing and stamping machines are
given by Dussauce :—

“Weigh as many pieces of 43 ounces as you want of
cakes of 33 ounces ; knead with the hands each little mass
of soap, so as to form a ball, which is made round on the
marble slab. For this purpose, the ball being on the
marble, give it a rotary movement with the right hand.
The ball being obtained, leave it on the marble, and give
it a cylindrical shape by rolling it with the flat of the hand.
This cylinder must not be larger than the model (mould?).
Nevertheless, as the cylindrical shape is not that which
the soap ought to have, strike the cylinder on all its sides
on the marble to square it—that is, to form an oblong
square—and round the angles by striking them gently on
the marble. If any unforeseen circumstance requires a
suspension of the work, cover the pounded soap with a
damp cloth and keep it in a cool place. If the soap is too
dry, it will be difficult to work well. Once begun, it must
be worked quickly and without interruption.

“The small cakes being shaped as indicated, dispose
them on trays or frames of white wood, traversed in their
length by small rods of wood, in such a way that each frame
presents as many empty spaces as full ones. These frames
have a length of twenty-seven inches, by eighteen wide ;
they.are arranged on shelves, at a distance of five or six
inches from each other.”

In arranging the soap cakes as above, a space of about
