180 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

For household or laundry purposes he uses by pre-
ference a soap made of oleic acid mixed with common
tallow or animal grease and resin; if necessary, he adds
a certain proportion of French chalk to give firmness to
the soap. The solution of silicate of soda should have a
specific gravity of about 170° by Twaddell’s hydro-
meter.

Borax Soap.—Mr. Rowbottom produces “ borax dry soap,”
or soap powder” by adding borax to the usual carbonated
or silicated ash or alkali, or other substance used in the
manufacture of dry or powder soaps. For boraz soft
soaps he adds a solution of borax to the ingredients
usually employed for making ordinary soft soaps before
or during the manufacture, or he dissolves by heat any
ordinary soft soap in the borax solution, and incorporates
the same, after which the mass is allowed to cool in the
usual manner.

Camphor and Ammonia Soaps.—Messrs. Cooper and
Smith introduce these substances into ordinary hard or soft
soap, the former being previously melted. The camphor is
first dissolved in camphine or rectified oil of turpentine,
or in alcohol. The solution of camphor is added to the
hard or soft soap in any desired quantity according to the
use to which it is to be applied. The carbonate of ammonia
is first reduced to a fine powder, and this is well incor-
porated with the soap by stirring. The carbonate of
ammonia is added in the proportion of from one to five
parts by weight to every 100 parts of soap. The addition
of camphor to the soap is said to give it valuable disin-
fecting properties, while carbonate of ammonia increases
the detergent power of the soap. The camphor may be
used without the carbonate of ammonia, and the latter
without the former, or they may both be added to the
same soap.

In addition to the camphor solution and carbonate of
ammonia, the patentees prefer to add of borax about
10 per cent. to the soap, and also glycerine to the extent
of 5 per cent. In adding borax it is dissolved in as small
a quantity of water as is practicable, and the solution is
