182 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

The process of converting the mineral oil into a solid
is completed by gradually adding the ordinary or un-
acidified alkali in sufficient quantities to effect this result,
keeping up the agitation as before. When the entire
mass is found to be granulated, the conversion into a
saponaceous compound is complete. While animal fatty
matter only has been mentioned, the same results can be
reached by the use of vegetable fatty matter, or a mixture
of animal and vegetable fatty matters. The soap is
finished by the free use of steam, Liquefaction is accom~-
plished by a jet of steam to thoroughly deoxidise the
saponified matter and disintegrate the compound. After
the use of steam for this purpose, the soap is boiled by
superheated steam.

Besson and Remy’s Process.—This consists in forming
a soap paste of any ordinary ingredients, and perfuming
as desired. The soap is afterwards pulverised, as in mak-
ing shaving powder, and the powder thus obtained is
agglomerated by pressure in small moulds of special form,
that is to say, of a form corresponding to that required’in
the pieces. This form is in section plano-concave, so that
the middle portion is comparatively thin, and can be
crushed by the finger with a very slight pressure applied
to the flat side. The crushed piece, as it consists of
agglomerated powder, at once becomes disintegrated,
and forms a good lather in water, an effect which cannot
be obtained from an equal-sized piece of ordinary toilet
soap without much friction.

Tardani’s Process.—Any convenient quantity of oil or
suet or other fatty matter is taken, and placed in a flat-
bottomed boiler of iron, constructed in the form of a trun-
cated cone, together with double the quantity of water
and a proportion of quicklime previously slaked by a
quantity of water equal to 12 per cent. of the weight
of the oil or fat. The whole must be boiled and mixed by
means of an agitator—a mechanical one by preference.

This will produce an insoluble hard lime soap and a
solution of glycerine, the latter of which may be separated
by opening the top of the perforated pipe connected with
