108 THE .ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

the arms. The soap is first introduced through the man-
hole and the shaft set in motion when the salts are added,
and the rotary motion continued until perfect combination
is effected. If the mass bécomes too stiff the temperature
is raised by turning on the steam to the jacket, or into
the vessel itself, and the soap when finished is drawn off
or blown out, through a passage or cock, at the lower
-part of the vessel, and is conveyed to the frames in which
itis crutched for a time, as is usual with soaps of this kind.

Potato-flour in Soap.—The ingenious inventor of sili-
cated soaps (Mr. Sheridan) conceived the idea of blending
with pure soap certain proportions of potato-flour, which he
carried into effect in the following way :—Equal parts by
weight of potato-flour andcold water are mixed thoroughly,
so that’ no lumps may remain. To every 123 Ibs. of the
flour used 37 lbs. of a solution of alum, free from sedi-
ment, are added, and the whole well incorporated by
stirring. To this mixture is added, in the same propor-
tion as before, namely, for every 124 Ibs. of potato-flour
used, 401bs. of soda or potash leys at 22° B., and the
whole mixed together into a homogeneous mass. For
‘making hard soaps the soda leys are to be used.

The above mixture, which is called the “detergent
mixture,” is now to be heated at a temperature of from
170° to 190° Fahr., but not higher, for from three to five
hours, which is best done by steam in a jacket-pan. During
the heating the mixture is to be constantly stirred, to
prevent it from adhering to the sides of the pan. The
mixture, being now ready, is to be added to melted soap,
when it is in the proper condition for cleansing. This is
best done by placing the soap in a half-ton pan, when the
detergent mixture, while still hot, is to be added, a pail-
ful at a time, and well crutched in, in the same way that
curd soap is crutched. It is necessary that the detergent
mixture and soap should be as nearly the same tempera-
ture as possible. The quantity of the detergent mixture
which is to be added to the soap may vary from one-fifth
to one-third by weight; but the soap-maker should de-
termine this by making small samples with different
