206 | THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

submitting the fatty acids to pressure, the solid and
liquid acids may be recognised by their consistency,
odour, &e.

When the soap under examination has been made from
materials rich in stearine, the addition of white wax may
not be necessary, since the fatty acids will set into a
hard cake. When, on the other hand, the separated
acids solidify slowly, and when cold form a soft cake,
it indicates that liquid vegetable oils have been employed
in the manufacture.

To determine the quantity of resin in soap, Dussauce
suggests the following :—One ounce of soap is decomposed
by an excess of sulphuric acid. The fatty acids obtained
after cooling are washed with slightly acidulated water.
The cake of fatty acids is divided into small equal pieces
and well dried. A certain quantity is dissolved in five or
six times its weight of alcohol at 90°. When the solution
is made, boiling water is added to it; the proportion of
water must be larger than that of the alcohol. An imme-
diate separation takes place, and the fatty acids float on the
surface of the liquor, which becomes limpid if the soap does
not contain resin, and, on the other hand, becomes milky
if resin is present. After the solidification of the fatty
acids by cooling, the cake is divided again into pieces, dried
and weighed. The difference in weight from that of the
acids before the treatment by alcohol gives the proportion
of resin contained in the soap.

Richardson and Watt’s System.—They give the follow-
ing plan for analyzing soap :—The soap is dried over a
water-bath at 212° F., and is then dissolved in alcohol (100
grains require 3 ounces of alcohol), and heated to boiling
over a water-bath. The soap, resin, and free fat enter into
solution, leaving the mineral constituents, glue, starch,
dextrine, &c, undissolved. The liquid is filtered and the
residue washed with alcohol. The alcohol is expelled from
the filtrate by evaporation. Addition of water then sets
free any resin or uncombined fat. These are collected on
a filter, dried and weighed. The filtrate now only contains
the fat soap and resin soap if any, and must be treated by
