APPARATUS AND APPLIANCES. 17

The Soap-Pans were generally made of cast-iron, with a
flange round the upper surface. These pans are concave
at the bottom, and are fitted with steam-pipes which
terminate in a perforated coil which rests on the bottom
of each pan. The pans are set in brickwork, and an iron
pump for removing the finished soap and leys is fixed
between each pair of pans. This pump is worked by
steam, and is connected to two movable arms of broad
iron tubing, one of which rests in each pan. These tubes
are raised or lowered by means of a chain and pulley, so
that they may be allowed to dip into the soap to any
required depth, or into the ley beneath it. The pump
can empty the contents of one or both pans at the same
time.

The pans project about three feet above the floor, which
enables the soap-boiler and his assistants to manipulate
them with perfect ease. Each pan is fitted with an iron
lid, or with a wooden lid covered with sheet-iron. The
lids are lowered or raised by a chain and pulley.

The soap-pan or copper (or as the French and Ameri-
cans term it, kettle), is sometimes made of cast-iron, in
several divisions, united together by iron cement, the lower
portion, or pan proper, being of a concave form, the whole
being sét in brickwork, which is so constructed that the
fire plays only upon the lower part of the pan, and not
upon its sides. Soap-pans of large dimensions are generally
made of wrought-iron plates riveted together.

The soap-pan is sometimes extended by placing what is
termed a curb above its upper rim, which is made of stout
sheet-iron, or of wood bound with iron. The object of the
curb is to prevent the overflow of the soap during the
more vigorous operation of boiling. Sometimes (when
steam heat is employed) stout blocks of wood are placed
round the flange of the pan instead of employing the
curb.

Morfit’s Steam Series.—The accompanying engraving
(Fig. 1) represents a steam series designed by Mr. Morfit.
Although not so simple as the arrangement previously de-
scribed, it is an ingenioussystem, and might beadopted with

c
