74 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

for many hours after washing with it. Soap made from
this oil, therefore, should never be introduced into toilet
or fancy soaps, even in small quantity, except for the very
low-priced qualities. a .

Cocoa-nut oil does not readily saponify with caustic soda
leys, when by itself, but when added to tallow, or n-oil,
it does so without difficulty. When saponified by itself
it forms a soap of almost unusable hardness, and for this
reason, besides its objectionable odour, it is always asso-
ciated with other fatty materials when employed in the
manufacture of soap. :

Sturtevant’s Process.-One of the earliest processes
for making soap with cocoa-nut oil as an ingredient was
patented by Sturtevant, in 1841. Itconsists in first steam-
ing the oil in a wooden vat, and adding to it 6 lbs. of
sulphuric and 12 Ibs. of hydrochloric acid to each ton of
oil, to remove as far as practicable its objectionable odour.
After allowing the oil to rest for a while, it is drawn off,
and is then ready for the soap-pan.

To make a White Cocoa-oil Soap—The materials are
taken in the following proportions: 2,072 Ibs. of cocoa-nut
oil, either as it is imported or refined as above; 168 lbs. .
of olive or other sweet oil, or tallow; 325 gallons of soda
ley at 24° B., and 60 gallons of potash ley at 20° B. The
cocoa-nut oil, tallow, or oil, as the case may be, are first
put into the pan, and leat applied. About 10 gallons of
the soda ley is then added, and when the whole materials
are united, the same quantity of soda ley is added from
time to time, with continued boiling, care being taken that
each portion of ley is well combined with the fatty matters
before the next is applied. As soon as the whole of the soda
ley has been used, the boiling is kept up for about half an
hour. The potash ley is then added, gradually, as before,
and when the whole quantity has been used, the boiling
is kept up for about fifteen minutes, after which about
84 Ibs. of common salt are sprinkled slowly over the mass,
this operation occupying about a quarter of an hour.
The boiling is then continued for about half an hour, after
