MANUFACTURE OF SOFT SOAPS. lag

pare leys of two or three different degrees of strength,
the weaker of which is employed in the first operation of
pasting, or preliminary stage of saponification.

On the Continent potash leys are prepared as follows :—
If the potash is in the form of hard lumps, these are first
crushed on a hard stone by means of an iron “ punner,”
and if 300 or 400 gallons of ley are required, from 450 to
500 gallons of water are put into an iron-pan, and brought
toa boil. The potash is then added, a little at a time,
until the whole quantity is dissolved ; but care is taken
that each portion is dissolved before adding the next, and
so on, and the solution of the alkali is accelerated by con-
tinual stirring. The boiling is kept up until the solution,
while boiling, marks from 20° to 22° B.

To causticise the above solution of carbonate of potash,
from 60 to 70 per cent. of fresh lime must be taken, the
weight of lime being determined by that of the potash
used. The lime must first be slaked with water, as usual,
and. the hydrate of lime thus formed is to be gradually
added to the hot solution of potash; it is, however, con-
sidered preferable to make the lime into milk of lime, by
mixing it with a moderate quantity of water. While the
lime is being introduced, the mixture is to be kept well
stirred, and the boiling should be contiiued for several
hours, when the. fire is withdrawn and the mixture
allowed to rest, so that the carbonate of lime may
gradually subside. This ley, which is called the first, or
strong ley, should stand at from 20° to 25° B. The clear.
ley is next run off into an iron tank or cistern, which
must be kept closed to prevent the absorption of carbonic.
acid from the air. When all the clear ley is drawn off,
an equal quantity of water is poured on to the lime, and the
pan well stirred for a short time, after which it is allowed
to rest until the lime has again deposited, when the clear
ley, called the second ley (marking from 12° to 16° B.) is
to be drawn offinto a separate tank. A third dose of water
is then poured in, and the pan again stirred as before, and
after about twelve hours’ repose, a third ley is obtained at
about 6° to 8° B. Further washings of the lime may then

K
