62 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

These materials are put into the Papin digester, and
boiled for an hour under pressure at the temperature of
252° Fahr. At the end of this time the soap is finished,
and is, after being allowed to cool down a little, run into
the frames.

Continental Method.—The French method of making
yellow or resin soap in many respects differs from our
own system, but since it presents many interesting features
we give the process described by Dussauce in his Treatise.
It will be observed that by this method the resin is con-
verted into a resinous soap, so called, before it is added to
the hard soap with which it is to be combined.

First process.—Into a pan holding from 625 to 750
gallons introduce 1,000 Ibs. of tallow, which is to be melted
by the aid of heat. When melted, it is to be saponified
with about 75 gallons of fresh caustic (soda) ley at 7° or
8° B. While running in the ley, the mixture is to be well
stirred. All the ley being added, the heat is to be aug-
mented, and the stirring continued for twenty-five or thirty
minutes. A white emulsion is thus formed, the ley and
tallow having perfectly combined, and a homogeneous
paste is the result. An hour after the last ley has been
added, the boiling becomes manifested by a tumultuous
movement in the mass, and the formation of a very abun-
dant white scum. The heat must now be moderated, and
the paste stirred. If these precautions are not sufficient, a
few pails of cold water or weak Jey are thrown into the

an.
‘When the effervescence has ceased, the foaming
diminishes, and soon disappears entirely. The paste is
now homogeneous and white, or of a yellowish tint.
Continue to boil gently; by boiling, the mixture becomes
more intimate and perfect, and acquires more consistency
by the evaporation of the ley. Continue the saponification
with leys at 15° to 18° B., which are added in portions of
6 gallons at a time every fifteen minutes for one anda
half hour. After the last addition of ley, continue to boil
gently for a few hours without adding new doses of ley.
By continuing the boiling, the paste is saturated slowly
