40 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

soap. It may be here mentioned that although soap is
soluble in very weak leys, it is absolutely insoluble in
strong solutions of caustic alkali. All the spent leys
having been drawn off the soap, it is now gently boiled
with a ley of the strength marking 18° or 20° B., to
which 8 or 10 per cent. of salt is added. The quantity
of this saline hy must be just sufficient to coagulate or
close the soap, and to prevent it from adhering to the sides
of the pan. While the boiling gently proceeds the soap
is constantly stirred. The ley is now allowed to subside,
when it is drawn off as before and fresh ley added, until,
after again boiling, the leys retain their causticity—when
saponification is known to be complete. At this period
the boiling becomes more violent and frothy, and the
soap-boiler keeps the pan from boiling over by constantly
using his shovel, with which he scoops up the soap and
throws it over the boiling mass.

As soon as the soap yields an odour resembling violets,
and is scaly when pressed between the fingers without ad-
hering to them, the finishing process is complete. The
time occupied in this operation is from eight to ten hours
in winter, and from ten to fifteen hours in summer: the
length of time, however, depends greatly upon the
quantity of material operated upon. When the operation
is complete the fire is withdrawn, and the soap is allowed
to rest for a few hours, after which the ley is again
drawn off. The finished soap is white and firm, and con-
tains from 16 to 25 per cent. of water. When the leys
are impure, containing salts of iron and sulphur, ‘it
assumes a dark shade owing to particles of metallic soap
permeating the mass. When this is the case, it must be
again treated with weak ley, and very gently heated,
when the dark-coloured soap, which is called niger or
nigre, being more dense than the fine soap, and not soluble
in weak ley, subsides. To facilitate this the cover of the
pan is lowered, and the soap again suffered to repose,
when the white soap, which forms the upper stratum, may
be ladled into the frames. 7

The fourth operation, which is terthed mottling, or
