38 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

ley. Previous to the addition of weak leys, however, the
“spent,” or exhausted, leys are pumped or drawnoff. The
addition of fresh leys is kept up until the whole of the
fatty. matter is Ailled, as it is termed (that is, neutralised),
or whenever it is found that the ley has lost its causticity,
which is ascertained by dipping the tip of the finger in the
ley and applying it to the tongue. Every addition of fresh
ley is accompanied by constant stirring. After four or five
changes of ley, with continued boiling and stirring, the
mass ‘becomes of an uniform soapy consistence, and a small
portion pressed between the fingers becomes immediately
hard and flaky.

Frequently the alkali from which the leys are made
contains common salt, sulphate of soda, and other impurities,
which have the effect of retarding the process of saponi-
fication by keeping the alkali and fatty matters in a more
or less separated state, whereas they require to be inti-
mately associated to effect a perfect chemical union. When
it is found, therefore, that the process is progressing slowly
from this cause, it is customary to throw into the pan a
quantity of soap scraps to aid the operation.

‘When the soap-pans are heated by fire, it is necessary to
use every precaution to prevent the burning of the soap at
the sides of the pan. Should this occur, however, the fire
must be slackened, and a small quantity of strong ley
added, with brisk stirring, which will partially separate the
pasty mass from the ley, bringing the latter in contact
with the metal of the pan, and thus prevent the burning
of the saponifying matter.

Second operation.—The oil being now completely
neutralised with alkali, the combination in its present:
state also contains a large quantity of water in the shape
of exhausted or spent ley. To remove this, many sub-
stances may be employed, but common salt, which
answers the purpose admirably, is from its cheapness
generally employed. The process of separation, which is
generally termed “cutting the pan,” is effected by throw-
ing into the pan a concentrated solution of common salt,
or a few shovelfuls of the same, each portion being
