156 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

half-an-inch is allowed between each, so that the air may
circulate round them, and thus facilitate their drying on
the surface. It is important that the drying should be
as rapid as possible. In about a week the surface of the
cakes will have become hardened, and ready for pressing.
This is done by means of a lever press, Fig. 31, which
merely gives to these cakes the preliminary form of the
mould. To apply the press, one of the cakes is placed on
the lower half of the mould, and the lever is then forced
downwards and then raised, when the cake is removed
and another substituted for it, and so on, until all the cakes
have been struck. The edges of the cakes are then
trimmed, after. which they are again set aside to dry, and
when sufficiently so they are removed from the drying-
room, and the hardened skin which has formed upon the
surface is carefully removed by means of a sharp knife,
with which the cakes are dexterously scraped by the work-
man. It is said that a good workman can scrape forty
dozen of cakes in a day.

‘When the cakes have been scraped they are moistened
with alcohol, to improve the smoothness of their surface.
To accomplish this, the fingers of the right hand are
dipped in alcohol, and this is spread quickly over the cake,
which is then rolled in both hands, by which it becomes
moistened all over in a few moments. The cakes are again
dried for about twenty-four hours, after which they are
ready for the final stamping, which is effected in the fly
or screw press, by which an active man can mould 1,500
cakes of soap per day.

In the above process there is a loss of about 14 or 15
per cent. of water during the several drying operations,
but this is allowed for in the operation of balling, in which
the cakes are made heavier than the resulting finished
soap is required to be. The scrapings of the cakes are
afterwards worked up in future batches of the same kind
of soap.

Formule for French Toilet Soaps.—The following
are some of the formule for toilet soaps adopted by the
French makers :— .
