12 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

“The addition of salt, or a solution thereof, to a con-
centrated alkaline solution of soap in water, precipitates
the soap in gelatinous flocculw, and the mixture behaves
precisely like solid soap boiled with a dilute solution of
salt. Carbonated and caustic potassa act exactl: like salt,
by separating soap from the alkaline fluid (ley) in which
it is absolutely insoluble.”

‘These observations, so carefully made and clearly ex-
plained, cannot fail to be of the greatest value to the
manufacturer of a commercial article so important as soap,
and which, at the present day, is made from such a great
variety of fatty materials, each requiring a different treat-
ment for its skilful and economical conversion into soap.
Continuing his observations, Liebig says, “The application
of the above to the manufacture of soap is evident. The
fat is kept boiling in an alkaline ley until all pasty matters
disappear, but the ley should have only acertain strength,
so that the soap may be perfectly dissolved in it. Thus
tallow may be boiled for days in a caustic potassa ley of
the specific gravity of 125° without saponifying. If the
ley be stronger, a partial saponification takes place, but,
being soluble in the fluid, it floats upon the surface as a
solid mass. By the gradual addition of water and con-
tinued boilings, at a certain point the mass becomes thick
and clammy, and with more water a kind of emulsion is
formed, which continued heating renders perfectly clear
and transparent if a sufficient quantity of alkali be present.
In this state it may be drawn into long threads, which on
cooling either remain transparent, or are more milky and
gelatinous. As long as the hot mass, when it drops from
a spatula, exhibits cloudiness or opalescence, the boiling
is continued or fresh alkali added. When excess of
alkali is present the cloudiness arises from imperfect
saponification or insufficiency of water: the former is
seen by dissolving a little in pure water, which becomes
perfectly clear when the whole is saponified. If the ley
contains lime the mixture is also clouded, but the addition
of carbonated alkali instantly clarifies it.

“In order to separate the soap from water, free alkali,
