234 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

tral fatty matters by the free alkalies. The difference in
hardness of the new lime soap being set aside (it was not
so hard), one might have supposed that the saponification
had been performed with caustic lime.

Another experiment was made by mixing Marseilles
soap with its weight of water and one quarter of its
weight of olive-oil. The temperature and operation were
the same. The matter, after the reaction, had all the
properties of an acid soap: it was soluble in cold alcohol
and in an aqueous solution of potassa or soda. Acids
separated from it a fatty substance likewise entirely
soluble in cold alcohol and alkaline solutions.

It results from the double experiment, which has just
been described, that soaps are as capable as alkalies of
decomposing fatty bodies into glycerine and fatty acids ;
it will thus be understood why I have given to this note
the apparently paradoxical title, Saponijication of Neutral
Fatty Matters by Soaps.

I have, moreover, ascertained that at the temperature
of 329° F. water does not act on oils. To decompose
them it is necessary that the mixture of fatty matters and
water should attain and be maintained for a long time at
the temperature of 428° F. assigned by M. Berthelot for
this latter saponification.

In England, where Price’s house manufactures immense
quantities of stearine candles, the saponification is per-
formed by the action of superheated steam at a still
higher temperature. Thence result fatty acids and free
glycerine which is nearly pure, and whence arts, manu-
factures, and medicine have already drawn great advan-
tages, and which will, probably, be much increased.

In the new reactions of which we speak it will be
understood that water, at a temperature of from 311° and
329° F., decomposes a neutral soap into an acid soap and
very basic soap, and that the latter acts in a secondary
manner on a fresh quantity of fatty matter in the same
manner that a free alkali would do. The observations of
M. Chevreul, relative to-the action of water on soaps,
accord with this explanation.
