110 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

under the title of Fuller's Earth Soap; but although it
met with considerable approbation as an agreeable toilet
soap, it failed to command anextensive sale. The method
of preparing it is given below, but it should be stated that
the object was to introduce into the soap the utmost
amount of the detersive earth that could be mechanically
mixed with it, in order that the latter, and not the former,
should be considered the active ingredient.

The fuller’s earth should be of the best commercial
quality, which occurs in large lumps, and first dried in an
oven, at a moderate heat, the object being merely to expel
the moisture with which it is associated, so that it will
freely siaken when again moistened with water. Itisa
peculiarity in this, and other clays, that they are more
friable, after being dried, and -then moistened. When
the ‘fuller’s earth is thoroughly baked, the lumps are
placed on a flat slab, with a ledge round it, and are then
sprinkled with water until they cease to absorb that
liquid, which is ascertained when an excess of water
ceases to be absorbed, or taken up by the dried earth.
‘When the lumps have thus become saturated, the clay
becomes very soft, and pasty to the touch. It is now to
be dried at a very gentle heat, until all the water is
expelled, when it will assume the form of a fine, but not
impalpable powder. In this condition it is easily reduced
to a powder, but in case there may be any lumps present,
it should be sifted through a fine gauze-wire sieve.

To mix the fuller’s earth with soap (resin soap by
preference), the latter should be put into a steam jacket-
pan, and the earthy powder spread over the surface, a little
at a time, with constant crufching, until the full quantity
has been introduced. Bearing in mind, however, that
the dried clay dried is highly absorbent, after a certain
quantity has been worked in, the mass will become con-
siderably stiffened, and thereby render the crutching both
laborious and difficult, therefore, to make up for the water
expelled from the soap by evaporation, a small quantity
of hot water may be added, if necessary, and finally, any
desired perfume added, if for a toilet soap. In this way
