224 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

method the milling requires longer time and the em-
ployment of a soap which does not dissolve too quickly,
whilst by the latter method a soap is wanted which does
not congeal too quickly. Among the soaps which do not
dissolve quickly we reckon those which are prepared from
tallow or palm-oil with soda ley, from which it is after-
wards separated. A soap which dissolves the quickest is
that which has been boiled from olive-oil, with an addi-
tion of tallow, then some olein soap; in a word, the
genuine soap. It is, however, true that green or brown
soap always dissolves quickest; nevertheless it is not fit
for milling heavy cloth with the stocks, because on that
account they do not thicken sufficiently. Although the
manufacturers of cloth will not easily decide on using any
other sort of soap, yet the soap-boiler should not be led
away by the opinion that every maker of the same article
can make use of the same sort of soap, because, as we have
already observed, not only the different qualities of cloth
and the method employed in their manufacture should
be taken into consideration, but also the different pro-
perties of the water used. It is, therefore, the duty of
every soap-boiler to supply each manufacturer with the
kind of soap which, in that manufacturer’s own opinion, is
the best adapted for his purpose and for the quality of
his material. We will for that reason more fully describe
the preparation of the different sorts of soap.

“Hard and Unsalted Soap for filling Cloths of
Superior quality—This kind of soap is made either of
tallow or cocoa-nut oil, or whitened palm-oil with an
addition of cocoa-nut oil, and in the following manner :—
The palm-oil or the tallow should be boiled into a firm-
grained soap with a caustic soda ley,* which is added till
the soap shows a strong grain and bears a good pressure
of the hand, and the sample shows a sufficient firmness
when cool, and when the ley, which still remains un-
salted in the soap, leaves a sharpish taste on the tongue.
We have then a soap, it is true, but it is not fit for
milling, because it does not yet possess a sufficient scouring

* Mr. Kiirten is in error in recommending soda soaps for these purposes.
