PURIFYING AND BLEACHING OILS AND FATS, 211

After a few hours’ rest the clear liquor is run off and fresh
water added, which, after a further repose, is again run off,
this operation of washing being continued until the clear
liquor is tasteless. After about twelve hours’ repose, the
whole of the liquor is run off, and the deposit, which is a
mixture of oxide of chromium and lime, after being well
drained, is spread over an iron plate, with a furnace fire be-
neath to thedepth of about twoinches. The fire being kindled,
the paste is first allowed to dry, when the heat is gradually
increased. When the plate acquires. a cherry-red heat
the grey mass will gradually assume a yellow colour nearest
the plate, and the mass will break up into irregular cakes.
When these have become roasted about half through they
must be turned over one by one, and the roasting continued
until the whole assumes the yellow tint of chromate of lime.
It will generally be found that the lumps will fall into a
coarse powder, in which case, in order to ensure uniformity
and to prevent over-heating (which must be strictly avoided)
the substance should be constantly turned over by means
of a trowel or shovel, a long-handled trowel being a most
convenient tool for the purpose. It is advisable in prac-
tice to shift from the centre of the plate those portions
which are sufficiently roasted* and to replace them with
those’ which are less done; the finished material may
be shovelled into an iron box or barrow, and there allowed
to remain until cold, when it may be put into a cask until
required for use.

Bleaching Palm-oil with Chromate of Lime.—About
60 Ibs. of the chromate of lime prepared as above are
sprinkled into a vat containing a ton of melted palm-oil,
and well crutched or stirred in; and when the whole has
been introduced 60 Ibs. of hydrochloric acid are added, and
the stirring continued until the usual reaction takes place
and the oil is completely bleached. A few buckets of hot
water may now be introduced with brisk agitation, and the
usual time then allowed for settling. It is hardly neces-
sary to say that the green liquor resulting from this opera-

* Tt is very important that the heat should be only ofa dullred. Be-
yond this point the product becomes decomposed and useless.
