MISCELLANEOUS PROCESSES, 18r

added to melted hard soap. In treating soft soap the
camphor and ammonia may be added either singly or
conjointly, and with or without borax and ‘glycerine.
The borax may either be added in solution or in fine
powder. In making soft soap for ships’ use 2 per cent.
of tar is added to soft soap in addition to the other
ingredients, the tar being first dissolved in pyroxylic
spirit.

Mackay and Seller’s Process.—The patentees’ process
consists in mixing with soap, during its manufacture,
chlorate of potash “or any other substance which, in pro-
cess of solution in water, will give off oxygen.” ‘The
chlorate of potash is sifted into or mixed with the soap
“on the point of its setting, or just before it is allowed to
cool, in such manner that the oxidizing agent is not then
dissolved in such soap base, but preserved therein more
or less in contact with the soaps treated. The object of
introducing the chlorate, or other oxidizing agent, is to
facilitate the removal of dirt during the process of
washing. Proportions: about 7 lbs. of chlorate to 112 lbs.
of soap.

Petroleum Soap: Bastet’s Process.—Caustic ley at
36° B. is placed in a suitable vessel, and then equal parts
of animal fatty matter and mineral oil are placed in
separate vessels. The combined weight of the fatty matter
and the mineral oil being taken as a standard, boracic
acid sufficient to dissolve the alkali is used; the mineral
oil is heated to a temperature of about 90° F., and
the animal fatty matter is melted by steam heat, and
while in this condition a quantity of boracic acid is
dissolved therein, which, with that acid used as before, will
make up one-half per cent. of the combined weight of the
fatty matter and mineral oil employed.

The partially acidified animal fatty matter and the
mineral oil being heatedin separate vessels, are now
united by gradually pouring the former into the latter,
with constant stirring or agitation, in order to effect a
perfect combination ; the acidified alkali is then gradually
added, and the mass kept well stirred.
