MISCELLANEOUS PROCESSES, 187

The ingredients are placed in a vat or other suitable
vessel, and boiled by injection of stéam for two hours.
The liquid, after being boiled, is passed through a sieve,
to separate the solid portion; it is then cooled down to
between 90° and 122° F. The-solid or third portion
is put into a cask (which is provided with a tap near the
bottom) and upon it is poured about 40 to 44 gallons of
boiling water, which is thoroughly incorporated by stirring.
It is then allowed to rest until it becomes clear, when the
clear portion is run out by the tap into a suitable receiver,
and brought to the boiling-point by the injection of
steam. The steam is now turned off, and 152 lbs. of soft
soap and 20 lbs of American pearlash are added, with
stirring. The soap which had previously cooled down is
now introduced and well mixed by stirring, when the
compound is ready for use.

Mr. Bichford introduces powdered French chalk (stea-
tite, or soapstone) into soap, employing from 4 to about 7
per cent., according to the purpose for which the soap is
to be used. For a nursery soap, 4 per cent. is recom-
mended, and for toilet soaps 5 per cent. of the powder.

As far back as 1838 Mr. Sheridan—the original in-
ventor of silicated soaps—patented a process for combining
potato flour, water, and soda or potash leys (preferring
the latter alkali) in the following proportions :—potato
flour, 16 lbs.; water, 270 lbs.; potash leys, 100 Ibs. It
will be seen, as is too frequently the case with “ improve-
ments ” in soap, that the same idea has been often patented
since.

Marking Soaps.—Mr. Dunn suggested marking soaps,
coloured soap, or other similar material in this way :—
The soap is first stamped in the usual manner, and when
dry the impression is filled in with plastic soap of a different
in by means of a spatula; or if the impression is fine
and small, with dry powdered and coloured soap, by
means of a spatula, with which a little of the powder is
spread over the impressed surface.
