MANUFACTURE OF HARD SOAPS. st

stirs the ingredients with a longiron rake. After a while
the fatty matters, which at first float on the surface of the
ley, combine with it, forming a thin creamy emulsion of a
perfectly uniform appearance, and from which no liquid
separates on cooling. Should the mass not present these
characteristics, the soap-boiler adds either water or some
weaker leys than were at first employed, and the boiling
is continued, with occasional stirring, until a perfect emul-
sion is obtained.

At this stage of the operation the compound ceases to
taste alkaline—the tongue being the usual test employed
by the soap-boiler-—and it is thus known that the combina-
tion of the fatty matters with the caustic ley is complete.
Stronger leys are now added repeatedly, the boiling being
continued until the leys taste of free caustic alkali.
When this is the case, more oily or fatty matters are
added, as also, from time to time, stronger leys. Great
care is taken, in this operation, that there is no excess
of alkali in the mixture when the soap-pan has be-
come sufficiently filled with the alkaline and fatty
ingredients.

e mixture is next treated with common salt, which
is thrown into the pan by shovelfuls at a time, each
portion being allowed to dissolve in the ley before adding
the next. hen sufficient salt has been added, the sapo-
nified matters separate into grains of soap combined with
a definite quantity of water, but as yet not containing its
full percentage of alkali. The leys, which are called
“spent leys,” consist of salt and glycerine in solution,
and should be quite free from alkali. .

The fire being withdrawn (or steam turned off), the
imperfect soap is allowed to rest for a few hours, so that
the ley may subside, and this is then drawn or pumped off.

The second operation consists in adding weak ley, with
which the soap is again boiled, until the soap (at first
granular) becomes homogeneous, or “‘ closed,” as the soap-
maker terms it. If the full quantity of fatty matters had
not been introduced in the first operation, the soap-boiler
now completes the addition of them, with also the addition
