MORFIT'S SYSTEM, 87

The raw materials employed in Morfit’s system include
thirty-one varieties of commercial fat acids, but he gives
the preference to oleic acid prepared from cotton-seed oil.

In carrying out his process he employs superheated
steam, at a pressure of from 50 to 60lbs. The soap-pan
is made of wrought iron, with steam-jacket, and revolving
stirrer fixed in strong iron framework. The stirrer con-
sists of a vertical wrought-iron spindle fitted with two
wings, or sets of blades, moving in opposite directions, by
which a more rapid and complete incorporation of the
materials is effected. A simpler arrangement, however, is
to fix a series of toothed blades to the sides of the pan, for
breaking the paste as it is carried round the mass by a
single wing. This is the least costly arrangement, and
would be nearly, if not quite, as effectual.

When charging the pan, the proportions of raw
materials are either weighed or measured accurately ; but,
before putting them into the pan, this is first thoroughly
heated by letting steam, under high-pressure, enter its
jacket. “The charge of red oil or fat acid, say 1,000
pounds, is then to be run into the pan through a sieve,
and the heat of the steam raised by superheating. The
usual custom, in the absence of a superheater, is to raise
the steam in the boiler to a pressure of five to five and a
half atmospheres; but this latter should be the extreme.
When the introduction of the superheater is employed,
its tubes must be kept at a violet or bright viclet redness.
Care should be observed also to stir well for three to five
minutes after drawing up the thermometer, and just
previous to adding the alkali liquor, in all those cases
where solid fat or resin mixture forms part of the fat
stock; otherwise the resulting soap paste will not be
homogeneous or handsome.” The alkaliis not introduced
into the pan until the materials have acquired the tem-
perature of 320° Fahr., the highest point it must be allowed:
to reach.

The alkali liquor for the above quantity of fat acid is
prepared by dissolving in boiling water 190 lbs. of soda
ash of 52°. The quantity of water must be in the pro-
