66 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

Apply heat as usual, and, when the ley is warm, add
1,000 Ibs. of white tallow. Boil gently for five or six
hours, with occasional stirring. When perfect combi-
nation is effected, and a homogeneous paste formed,
add 50 gallons of ley: at 15° B.; and boil to secure the
thickening of the paste. Now finish the saponification
with 30 or 40 gallons of ley at 20° B., and stir well for
half an hour. ‘Turn off the steam and separate the soap
with leys of coction (old leys) at 20° to 25° B. in the same
way as before. .

After a few hours’ rest draw off the ley and continue
the boiling with 175 to 200 gallons of soda ley at 25° B.
If, after boiling for eight or ten hours, the ley is still
caustic, and the soap forms thin hard scales when pressed
between the fingers, from 600 to 800 Ibs. of yellow resin
must be added, which gives the soap a fine yellow colour,
and the grain of the soap is more homogeneous. The
boiling must be continued, and 75 to 100 gallons of ley
at 25° to 28° added, which will complete the saponification
of the resin. ‘After four or five hours’ boiling the ley
should still be caustic, when it is known that the soap is
finished. A small sample, dropped upon a cold surface,
should set hard and firm in a few minutes. After the
usual repose the ley is run off.

Now run into the pan from 100 to 125 gallons of ley at
4°, and again boil, with constant stirring, until the mix-
ture becomes liquefied. When all the grains are melted,
forming a nearly homogeneous paste, from which the ley,
however, separates, the operation is finished; if the ley
does not separate, an addition of clear old leys must be
made to aid the separation. The steam is now to be
turned off and the lid of the pan lowered upon it. After
a repose of twenty-four hours the leys, together with all
impurities, will have subsided, leaving the pure, finished
soap above, which may then be cleansed—that is, put into
the frames—in the usual way. When all the soap is in
the frames it is to be stirred until cool, and if it be desired
to give the soap a slight perfume, an ounce of anise oil for,
every 100 Ibs. of soap may be crutched in. To impart to
