MISCELLANEOUS SOAPS, 225

quality, therefore will not cleanse the cloth from its dirt,
glue, and grease. To give the soap the necessary power
to effect that purpose an addition of cocoa-nut oil is
requisite, and for that reason the unsalted ley which
remains in the soap must be got rid of, and the soap
poured again into the boiler, but without any ley. For
every 100 Ibs. of palm-oil or tallow used for this soap
25 lbs. of cocoa-nut oil must be added, which is mixed with
the soap when cold in small quantities, or, which is more
advisable, when in a state of solution, and then made to
boil afresh. When it is intended. to make a soap ofa
superior quality and to diminish the ley, in order to
saponify cocoa-nut oil a caustic ley of soda of 28° or 30°
is required. The ley is added till the soap has acquired a
good firmness, and, when tried, a taste rather strong of
ley remains on the tongue. As soon as this is found,
then the soap must be allowed to boil for half an hour to
ascertain whether the same taste yet remains; if not, a
little more ley must be added till the taste returns.
When the soap is not yet separated from the ley, to effect
that purpose some sali must be used, and continued till
the soap on the spatula separates from the ley. The soap
will remain some hours in the boiler to ccol, and be after-
wards poured into the frame. When it is desired to
obtain a larger produce, although with the conviction that
the quality will not be so good, instead of a ley at 28° or
80° for the saturation of the cocoa-nut oil, one 22° to 24°
must be used, and the soap poured into the frame in the
state of paste, and not unsalted; but in this case care must
be taken that the soap is not brought to a higher degree
of heat than 25° Réaumur (152°), otherwise the soap
from the cocoa-nut oil would stick to the bottom of the
boiler.”

White Cocoa-nut Oil Soap.—Cristiani gives the fol-
lowing directions for making this soap in a simple and
quick way :—To a 100 lbs. of this soap, introduce
into a kettle* holding from 200 to 250 gallons, 200 lbs.

* The term “kettle” is genorally used in America in preference to
soap-pan or copper.
Q
