DISINFECTING SOAP, Tid

chloride, until the colour of the soap is evidently and suffi-
ciently improved.

Bleaching Soap in the Pan.— When soap is made from
dark-coloured goods, or from materials in which a certain
quantity of dark-coloured fatty matter forms a part, a con-
siderable improvement in the colour of the batch may be
made by adding a moderate quantity of solution of chloride
of soda after the first operation of saponification is com-
plete. The chloride solution is prepared in the same way
as described in the first formula, but twice, or even three
times the quantity of water should be applied, in order to
facilitate the deposit of the carbonate of lime. After the
materials have been mixed with, say, 28 gallons of water
for each 28 Ibs. of chloride of lime and 82 lbs. of soda
crystals used, about 56 gallons more cold water are added
and the mixture well stirred, after which it is allowed to
repose for a few hours, when the clear liquor (which has
a slightly greenish tint) may be drawn off as required, and
as much of it spread over the boiling contents of the pan
by meaus of aladle or swimmer as may be found necessary
to bleach or decolour the saponified mass.

When all the liquor has been ‘drawn off the residual
carbonate of lime, a quantity of fresh water should be
added with brisk stirrig, in order to wash out, as far as
practicable, the remaining chloride, and the weaker liquor
thus obtained may be used in place of water.in future
batches, as in making ordinary leys. Although the process
has been extensively adopted in various parts of the United
Kingdom, with one or two honourable exceptions it has

_ been used without licence.

Pearlash added to Combined Soap.—With a view to
neutralise the spent leys (salts) contained in combined
soaps—-that is, curd and hydrated soaps combined, as in
Blake and Maxwell’s process, or other such combinations—
Kottula introduces a certain quantity of pearlash, the
proportion varying according to the excess of spent leys
contained in such combined soap. About 1 ewt. of pearl-
ash to 3 tons of soap is said to be sufficient, though a much
larger proportion may be used for some soaps.

|
