126 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

tion again boiled, adding, during the boiling, 25 gallons
of the second ley for every 2 Ibs. of substance, and con-
tinue to boil until, on cooling, it has the appearance of a
firm paste.

“4, Coction. The object of this operation is to give
the soap a consistency which will render it salable as a
commercial article, for which purpose tallow and resin are
added in proportions varying from 2 to 100 per cent. in
the second ley above'given. Thus, for treating 500 lbs.
of the soap first obtained, take: resin, 100 lbs.; tallow,
50 Ibs.; liquor, No. 2, 200 lbs. Thesé are to be boiled
until perfectly saponified, when the former soap is to be
added, little by little, to avoid too much swelling, and the
boiling continued until the paste, on cooling, becomes
hard, when it is run into frames, and may be cut in about
two days after.” ~

Crevel’s Process.—Melt in boiling water the greases,
meats, or other parts of animals, press, and keep the resi-
duum ; triturate and grind the residuum, macerate it in
alkaline liquor for several days; put the macerated sub-
stance into a pan, and boil until perfect liquefaction takes
place, when it must be allowed to cool. The mass is then
to be heated again, and alkali added gradually, care being
taken not to employ too strong a ley. When the mixture
has acquired the proper alkaline strength the heat is
slackened and the mass allowed to cool. From 10 to 15
per cent. of resin should be added to the above, and when
saponification is completed the soap is framed as usual.

Villacrose’s Process.—In this process animal sub-
stances are saponified as follows :—Take animal substances,
200 lbs.; caustic soda, 10 lbs.; melted tallow, 40 lbs.
The pan is first to be heated, and, when warm, the soda is
to be thrown in, the small quantity of water it contains
being sufficient to dissolve it. Now, immediately intro-
duce the animal substances and stir well. The heat must
be gentle at first, and the temperature gradually raised to
167° F. During the melting the mass must be stirred
until it thickens, then add the 40 Ibs. of tallow (with a
little water if necessary), which soon becomes saponified,
