202 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

acid, and stir gently. The acid, combining with the soda,
will set free the fat acids, which will float on the surface.
Now set the vessel aside to cool, and, when quite cold,
make a hole in the cake of fatty matter, and allow the
liquid to escape into another vessel. To hasten the solidi-
fication of the fat acids, add 100 grains of white wax and
a little water, and then apply heat until the whole is well
melted ; again set aside to cool; and proceed as before.
washing the cake several times until no trace of acid
remains in the last water when tested by litmus paper.
Finally, run off all the water, remove the cake carefully,
and place it upon a piece of white blotting-paper and
thoroughly dry it, taking care not to allow any particles
of the combined fatty matter and wax to remain in the
capsule. After carefully weighing, and deducting the
100 grains of wax, the result will show the proportion of
fat acids in the sample of soap under examination. If,
when the soap is first dissolved in boiling water, oily
matter floats on the surface, it indicates that saponification
has not been complete.

II. To ascertain the percentage of alkali. This may
be effected roughly by simply volatilising all the fatty
matter by heat, and then weighing the residuum. Having
weighed out 100 grains of the soap, place them in a porce-
lain crucible and apply heat either over a clear fire or a
Bunsen burner until all the fatty matter has burnt off,
when the residuum, which is carbonated alkali, will show,
on weighing, the percentage of alkali in the sample. If
the soap, however, has been adulterated with earthy
matters, as silicate of soda or china clay for example, the
proportion of real alkali must be determined by the alka-
limetric test before described. 100 grains of the soap
being dissolved in about 2,000 grains of boiling water,
the solution is then neutralised with test-acid, and the
quantity of this acid used will give the exact percentage
of alkali present in the soap.

“Tf the soap contain clay, chalk, silica, dextrine, fecula,
pumice-stone, ochre, plaster, salt, gelatine, &c., dissolve
100 grains of the suspected soap in alcohol ; with the aid
