MANUFACTURE OF HARD SOAPS. 73

goods a ley of moderate strength only (instead of the
finishing ley for curd soap) and boil, taking care that no
‘head’ is formed. I then pump out this ley, and again
treat the goods with weak ley or water until sufficientl
diluted, so as to perform the fitting process, after which
allow time for subsidence, separate the niger, add the
finishing ley, and boil to a curd as before.”

He next describes his method of treating the niger, and
the way in which he converts it into mottled soap. After
separating the purified soap from the niger, as before, he
adds to the latter the ordinary ley used for finishing
mottled soap, and boils until the soap is fit for cleansing,
or framing. The quantity of niger obtained from one
boil, however, is not sufficient to make a boil by itself;
therefore Mr. Anderson takes the niger resulting from
four, six, or more boils of soap, and finishes them in one
operation, as above. Sometimes he adds to the nigers a
certain quantity of tallow, fat, bone grease, melted “ stuff,”
or other suitable materials, and then proceeds to finish as
with an ordinary mottled soap.

Cocoa-nut Oil Soaps.—One of the most important addi-
tions to the list of fatty matters suitable for soap-making
was the vegetable substance called cocoa~nut oil or cocoa
butter, which, from its extreme whiteness and capability
of forming a hard soap, soon became an acceptable sub-
stitute in some degree for the more costly tallow. Soap
made from this oil, or vegetable butter, is capable of taking
up a larger percentage of water—and still form a hard
soap—than any other known fatty material. The soap
made from it, moreover, is more soluble in saline or “hard”
waters—even sea-water—and for this reason it has long
been made into a soap called Marine Soap, for use on
board ship.

Cocoa-nut oil, however, when saponified, has the great
disadvantage of imparting an exceedingly disagreeable
odour to the skin and even to articles cleansed by its
agency; and even when but a small percentage of this
substance is blended with other soap materials, its pecu-
liarly offensive odour will rest upon the surface of the skin
