PURIFVING AND BLEACHING OILS AND FATS. 209

colour of the soap. By the “chrome process,” however,
the colouring matter of the oil was entirely removed and
the oil rendered. as white as the finest English tallow.
The importance of this process at a time when palm-oil
was worth about £82 per ton and tallow about £56 can
readily be imagined, and although some years elapsed
before the trade fully recognised its importance, it was
eventually adopted by all soap-makers in every part of
the Kingdom. The process is conducted as follows :—
Bleaching Palm-oil: Watt’s Chrome Process.—One
ton of raw palm-oil melted by steam heat and allowed to
settle is placed in a wooden tub or vat, and is stirred with
a wooden crutch until it has a temperature of about 120° F.
or even lower in hot weather; 28 lbs. of bichromate of
potassa are then dissolved in boiling water and the solution
poured into the vat and the stirring continued; 60 lbs. of
ydrochloric acid are then added, and the stirring vigour-
ously kept up. In a few moments the oil assumes a dark
brown colour, which in a few minutes changes first to a
dark green and then quickly to a lighter green, with
slight foaming, when the operation is complete. If small
samples are taken from time to time and placed upon a
piece of glass or porcelain, the rapid changes of colour
appeat very remarkable, and when the last stage is
reached (which is sometimes the case within five minutes
after the acid has been introduced) the oil upon the palette
will be perfectly free from colour. If now a drop or two
of the bleached oil be treated with a drop of soda ley, the
mixture will be quite colourless if the operation has been
properly conducted. A current of steam or a few pails
of boiling water are now introduced, with brisk stirring,
after which the oil is allowed to repose. In about twelve
hours the “ green liquor,” as it is called, is drawn off by
a plugged opening at the bottom of the vessel, and the
bleached oil is then ready for the soap-copper. The green
liquor, which contains oxide of chromium in solution, is
carefully preserved, and may be treated for the recovery
of the chrome by a process which will be described
hereafter.
p
