MANUFACTURE OF HARD SOAPS, 69

vaporisation salt brine is added.* The head being care-
fully luted upon the pan and adjusted to the worm, and
the mixture brought to a boil, the steam and vapour of
the spirit become united and pass over into the worm, and
are condensed. When all the essential oil is distilled
over, the remaining soap is finished in the usual way.

Practice shows that the greatest excellence in resin soap «
is not obtained by adding the resin directly to the oil or
paste. The best plan is to make the grease and resin
soaps separately and then to mix them in proper propor-
tions. The resin soap is first prepared by stirring 80 lbs.
of powdered resin, a little at a time, into 100 lbs. of soda
ley at 25° B., and boiling into a perfect solution. The
acid properties of resin render the combination easy and
prompt, even when the Jey is made from a carbonated
alkali. The resino-alkaline solution is then to be well
stirred into the finished paste, made from tallow, while it
is still in the pan; but its temperature should not be above
135° to 140° Fahr., otherwise perfect homogeneity of the
mixture cannot be obtained. In this way 15 per cent. of
resin may be introduced without materially darkening the
colour of the tallow soap. Moreover, the quality of the
product is good. Sometimes several per cent. of starch
or bran are used to assist the combination of the two
soaps. When the soap materials are worked by fire
instead of steam the boiling should be continued gently
until the paste is uniform throughout, and then the salt is
to be added.

Yellow, or resin soap, may be prepared from curd soap
by adding to it about 25 per cent. of resin, and then
adding from 2 to 4 per cent. of carbonate of soda, and 1
or more per cent. of alum or sulphate of alumina, the
whole being boiled with water until a perfect combination
takes place. To prevent the resin from becoming preci-
pitated, about 2 per cent. of dilute sulphuric acid (1 part
acid to 9 parts water) are stirred into the mixture.

* Tt is well known that the addition of salt to water enables that liquid
to attain a higher temperature than 212° F., the boiling-point of water.
