192 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

periment the limit of the quantity used before may be
aproached so near that the further addition of liquid may
be made drop by drop.”

When alkalies are analyzed gravimetrically a specific
gravity-bottle (Fig. 35) capable of holding exactly 1,000

grains of distilled water is employed, and this,
when filled with test-liquor, weighs (exclusive
of the tare of the bottle) exactly 1-083 grains.
1,000 grains of the test-liquor contains exactly
( jj 40 grains of real sulphuric acid. The test-acid
to be used volumetrically, that is, with the alka-
limeter, has a specific gravity of 1-032 at 60° F.,
Fig. 35. and 1,000 grains by measure contain exactly 40
grains of real or anhydrous sulphuric acid.

Preparation of the Test-acid or Standard Solution.—
When making the test-liquor it is advisable to prepare a
quantity sufficient for many operations, since there is
necessarily a certain amount of trouble involved in its pre-
paration. It may be readily made by mixing 1 part of
concentrated sulphuric acid with 11 or 12 parts of distilled
mater, the mixture being effected in a “ Winchester”
bottle, which holds rather over half-a gallon. The acid
solution must be adjusted or brought to the proper strength
after it has cooled down to 60° F., and it should be faintly
tinged with litmus, which will give it a pinkish hue.

If the acid is of the proper strength it should exactly
saturate 53 grains of pure carbonate of soda previously
calcined at a red heat, or 31 grains of pure anhydrous
soda. To prepare the anhydrous carbonate of soda, place
a few crystals of carbonate of soda in a Berlin porcelain
crucible, and heat this over a spirit-lamp or Bunsen burner ;
when all the water of crystallisation is expelled continue
the calcination until the mass is at a bright red heat, when
the vessel may be set aside to cool. Now carefully weigh
out 53 grains of the calcined carbonate, and dissolve in
about 2 ounces of distilled water in a beaker-glass. The
alkalimeter is now to be charged with the test-acid to
the level of zero, and (if Mohr’s burette be used) the beaker
containing the alkaline solution is to be placed upon the
