198 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

insoluble substances, which are removed by filtering, a
greater or less quantity of chloride of sodium (common
salt), and of sulphate of sodium (which, however, do not
interfere with the accuracy of the result); but when
sulphurets, sulphites, or hyposulphites are present, these
substances, neutralising a certain quantity of the test-
acid, would render the estimation seriously inaccurate ;
wherefore it is absolutely necessary in such cases to trans-
form these substances into sulphates by calcining a given
quantity of the sample with 5 or 6 per cent. of chlorate
of potassium, as recommended by Gay - Lussac, and
Welter.” .

The chlorate of potash is first pulverised, and then 5 or
6 grains are intimately mixed with each 100 grains of the
sample, and the mixture is fused in a platinum crucible.
When cold, the fused mass is dissolved in boiling water,
filtered and washed, and the assay then conducted in the
same way as before described. If, however, the soda ash
contains any hyposulphites this method must not be
adopted, since each equivalent of hyposulphite would be
converted into /wo equivalents of sulphate, at the expense
of the alkali or its carbonate present in the sample, and
which would render the assay seriously inaccurate.

MM. Fresenius and Will, in order to overcome this
source of inaccuracy, recommend the addition of a small
quantity of yellow chromate of potash to the alkaline
solution, by which the sulphurets, sulphites, and hypo-
sulphites are converted into sulphates, sulphur, and water.
Fresenius says: “It is always advisable to make it a
rule, in the examination of soda, to add some chromate of
potassa.”

Testing Commercial Pearlashes is performed in the
same way as samples of soda, but it is usual to employ
a separate test-acid for this purpose. The test-acid
for potash should have a specifie gravity of 1:070 to
1:071;° 470 grains contain 40 grains of real sul-
phuric acid. Of this solution 1,000 grain measures (or
100 burette divisions) exactly neutralise 113 grains of
pure anhydrous carbonate of soda, or exactly 100 grains
