’

go THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

to have its full effect before introducing the next, other-
wise the uprising of the mass will be so great as fo render
it liable to overflow. The additions of ley must be made
until separation is effected, which may be ascertained by
dipping the shovel into the mass in the usual way, when,
if the soap appéars in small grains, from which the ley
runs freely, the operation is nearly finished; but to
ensure its perfect completion, 40 or 50 gallons of the same
ley are introduced, with brisk stirring for about half an
hour. °

The soap, which is now in the form’of very small grains,
is allowed to repose for eight or ten hours, when the ley is
drawn off as usual, and the saponification of the soap
completed by boiling with two fresh services of leys. In
the first service about 90 gallons of fresh caustic ley at
24° or 25° are run into the pan, followed by gentle boiling
for eight or ten hours. At the end of this time the leys
will be free from causticity. During the boiling, how-
ever, to make up for the evaporation which takes place,
2 or 8 gallons of ley should be added about every hour
or so.

After the leys of the last operation have been removed,
a second service of strong caustic ley is given. This ley
should be of 27° or 28° B. From 60 to 75 gallons of this
ley are now run into the pan, steam turned on, and gentle
boiling applied for four or five hours, during which the
soap acquires more consistency, and by the evaporation of
water from the ley the mass decreases in bulk. As in the
former operation, repeated small doses of strong ley must
be added from time to time, and the thick skin which
forms on the surface of the soap should be driven into the
mass bya stirrer. At the completion of the operation the
leys should still be caustic to the taste after a boil of eight
or ten hours. The granular soap, if properly finished,
should, when pressed between the fingers, form hard and
dry scales or flakes, and readily powder when rubbed in
the palm of the hand. The steam is now turned off, the
cover of the pan lowered upon it, and the soap allowed to
repose until the following day, when the ley is drawn off.
