USEFUL NOTES AND TABLES, 231

again applied to maintain a gentle ebullition for a few
minutes. Small portions of nitric acid are successively
added till no further distinctly appreciable quantity of
nitrous acid is given off. The fatty acids are now allowed
to cool, and are removed from the acid solution strongly
coloured by terebic acid. The cake is then washed by
melting it-in a further quantity of nitric acid. When
cold it is dried and melted at a gentle heat till acid fumes
cease to be given off. The resulting cake is the pure fatty
acid freed from resin, the latter being indicated by the
loss. It will be observed that a correction must be made
to obtain the exact relative proportions between fat and
resin originally put into the soap-pan, as fats on being
decomposed lose about 44 per cent. of their original
weight. Hence, in making the calculation a proportionate
addition must be made to the fatty acid before dividing
its weight by that of the resin indicated. This process
may be also used to determine resin in bees’-wax.

Detection of Resin in Soap.—Mr. C. Barford decom-
poses the soap with hydrochloric acid, and washes the
mass thus obtained with water. He then treats it with a
caustic soda ley of the specific gravity of 1:1 diluted with
6 volumes of water, avoiding excess. He then evaporates
it to dryness over a water-bath, grinds up the residue, and
dries in stove at 100°. One portion of this powder is
utilised for the determination of the fatty acids, and
another portion is put into a very dry bottle, and from 5,
to 6 per cent. of absolute alcohol are added for every
gramme of soap. It is heated at 80°, to dissolve the soap
of the fatty acids and of resin, and allowed to cool again
while well stoppered. The alcoholic liquid, when cold, is
mixed with 5 times its volume of ether. The whole is
well shaken up and left to settle. The resin soap is entirely
dissolved, whilst the soap of the fatty acids is deposited
almost entirely. After standing for 24 to 48 hours the
ethereal liquid is decanted, and the residue is treated with
hydrochloric acid. This method is based upon the slight
solubility of a soda soap of the fatty acids in the above
mixture of alcohol and ether.
