46 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

the complete combination of the oils or fatty matters with
the alkali is ensured. It is this operation, also, which
gives hardness and consistency to the soap, increases
its density, and deprives it of all disagreeable odours,
besides rendering it more detergent.

The’ leys used in this operation are termed salted leys,
being a mixture of soft (not caustic) soda and. artificial ,
salted sodas, causticised by lime, as before described ; but
before the application of this ley the soap -is treated
with 88 gallons of cold soft ley at 20° to 25° B., which
is thoroughly well crutched in. This has the effect of
separating the soap into flakes which float on the ley.
After stirring for half an hour the cover is lowered to
keep in the heat, and, in about four hours after, the ley
is drawn off. Dussauce says: “Some manufacturers for,
the first service use salted lyes, but, in our judgment,
soft leys are to be preferred. Indeed, there is already
in the paste an excess of salt, due to the lyes employed
for the separation, and, as too large a quantity of salt
interferes with the useful action of new lyes on the
molecules of soap, it is proper and rational to eliminate
it from the paste as much as possible. The soft lyes
contribute to this result. This advantage is not the
only one, the lyes of coction, used in considerable quan-
tities in the separation, have set free some fatty matters

imperfectly combined; then the soft leys, while purify- __

ing the paste from the excess of salt it contains, deter-
mine the incorporation of the oily or fatty substances
which had not been combined before, and could not be
if salted lyes had been used.”

The above observations are of considerable value, in-
asmuch as they guard the soap-maker against falling
into a very common error—that of applying salt before
saponification is known to be complete.

The first application of the salted ley is given after
the ley of the last operation has been drawn off. From
100 to 115 gallons of salted ley, at 25° B., are put into
the pan and heat applied, with stirring so soon as boil-
ing commences. The boiling is to be continued until
