52 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

of more strong ley, until, after long boiling, the compound
has acquired a strong alkaline taste. Common salt is
now again added to separate the soap as before from the
ley, and the boiling continued for some hours in contact
with the caustic ley, so as to ensure the perfect saponifi-
cation of every atom of fatty material.

Soda which’ contains sulphurets (as the so-called dlack-
ash) is preferred for making mottled soaps, for reasons
which have been already explained. Mottling is com-
monly practised in some London soap-works byintroducing
into the nearly finished soap a certain quantity of strong
crude soda ley through the rose spout of a watering-can.
The dense sulphuretted. liquor, in passing through the
pasty mass and ley, gives it a marbled appearance. Some-
times a small quantity of a solution of Prussian blue is
used for this purpose.

When crude sodas, however, are used in the manufac-
ture of mottled soap, the mottling is effected, towards the.
close of the operation, by a mere mechanical mixture of
the dark-coloured ley with the soap. It is effected in this
way : the workman breaks the paste in all directions with
his rake, after which he holds it perpendicularly till it
reaches the ley, when he raises it vertically with a jerk,
making it act. like the piston of a pump, by doing which
he lifts some of the ley and spreads it over the surface
of the paste. In its subsequent descent through the
numerous fissures and channels of the soap, on its way to
the bottom of the pan, the dark-coloured ley impregnates
the soapy particles in various forms and degrees, thereby
producing veins or markings which, when the soap is
afterwards cooled, give it the desired marble-like appear-
ance. This operation has also the advantage of cooling
the soap in some degree, which is necessary before it is
put into the frames, or the “strike,” or mottling, would
not be perfect, owing to the superior density of the dark
particles which form the coloured veins of the soap.

When mottled soap is ready for framing, it is in the
form of a thick, gelatinous mass, interspersed with leys,
and in this condition it is ladled out into large pails and
