216 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

waste soap-liquor. The solution of sulphuric acid is added
to the waste soap-liquor in its original bulk, or when it is
reduced to about one half that bulk by evaporation. Su-
perheated or ordinary steam is then passed through the coils
of pipe connecting with the evaporating-pans, and the waste
liquor is concentrated to about one-tenth of the original
volume. If any resin or fat is contained in the waste
liquor it is admissible to add a slight excess of the dilute
acid, and to remove the same—the resin or fat—by strain-
ing the concentrated liquor through cloth or any other
suitable material made into bags or otherwise, after it has
been evaporated to about one-tenth of its original volume.
A small quantity of carbonate of lime is then added to the
strained liquor, and it is further concentrated by evapora-
tion until upon cooling it assumes the consistency of a
syrup or paste, which consists of a mixture of chlorides
and sulphates of soda and potassa, sulphate and carbonate
of lime, and glycerine. The entire contents of the evapo-
rating vessels are then placed in a centrifugal machine,
such as is used for causing the separation of sugar from
molasses, which is then set in motion and caused to rotate
rapidly on its axis, thereby causing the removal of the
glycerine. By this means the greater portion of the salts
of soda, potassa, and lime are retained in the interior of
the centrifugal machine, the glycerine being thrown off
by the rapid rotation of the machine. As the glycerine
thus obtained holds a certain quantity of salts in solution,
these are separated by distillation. .

Mr. George Payne’s Process.—The inventor takes the
spent ley resulting from the manufacture of soap and
saturates any free alkali present with an acid. He prefers
to use sulphuric, hydrochloric, or nitric acid. He then
takes a solution of tannin or tannic acid, and adds this
to the spent ley after being neutralised by the acid. This
solution should contain about one part by weight of tannin
or tannic acid to about ten parts by weight of water.
The addition of the solution to the ley is continued until
it ceases to precipitate any albuminous or gelatinous
matter.
