MANUFACTURE OF HARD SOAPS, 7

capable of holding in its constitution a very considerable
quantity of water, and yet form a hard soap; indeed, in
some soaps we have seen, water has been not only the
chief ingredient, but admost the only one !

French Cocoa-nut Oil Soaps.—In France they make
white and tinted soaps from cocoa-nut oil; and since their
method of manufacture somewhat differs from that adopted
in this country, the following process, given by Dussauce,
will be read with interest.

“ White and Rose Soaps.—For these soaps the oil must
be very white and concrete; that of Cochin is the best
and the most highly esteemed. Suppose that a soap is to
be prepared yielding 500 to 600 per cent., introduce 200|bs.
of oil into a sheet-iron kettle (pan) of a capacity of from
375 to 400 gallons. Melt the oil by a gentle heat, and as
soon as melted pour in it 50 gallons of new ley of soda

. ash at 15°, and boil the mixture, adding from time to time
small portions of ley at 18° to 20°, until the paste has
acquired a caustic taste. When in this state it'is a sign
that it is entirely saturated. The first operation lasts
four hours.

“To harden the soap and make it produce the quantity
named above, add to it salt water (brine) at 18° to 20° in
the proportion of 5 gallons every fifteen minutes, and at
the same time continuing the ebullition. It is in this
second stage of the operation that the degree of coction
(boiling) of the soap must be ascertained, and for this
purpose a certain quantity is taken from time to time and
allowed to cool on a dish. When the sample becomes
solid by cooling, the operation is finished. Generally the
quantity of salt-water used is about the same as that of
the ley, and at about the same degree. For the above
proportions the operation lasts about seven or eight hours,
during which the mixture is constantly kept in a state of
ebullition. When the operation is finished the steam is
turned off, and the soap, before being run into the frames,
is suffered to cool and rest for twelve or fifteen hours.

“Tf the soap is to be, rose, it is coloured as soon as run
into the frames, and while yet fluid, with 4 lbs. or 6 lbs. of
