ALKALIMETRY. 199

of pure potassa, The number of measures consumed read
off, by mere inspection, from the burette scale, gives the
exact percentage of the sample of potash under examina-
tion. - Or, if ‘Normandy's method be adopted, “as the
equivalent of carbonate of potassium is 69, the weight of
the sample to be operated upon to make in solution 10,000
grain measures will be 690. It may sometimes be con-
venient to employ a normal sulphuric acid, 1,000 grain
measures of which shall be equivalent to precisely 100
grains of the anhydrous caustic alkali. For this purpose
it is obvious that different standard acids will be required
for soda and for potassa. That for soda must be of such
a strength that 1,000 grain measures shall saturate
exactly 171 grains of pure carbonate of sodium, and that
for potassa must be precisely equivalent to 1468 grains
of pure carbonate of potassium. The advantage of the
standard above described is its equivalency both to potassa
and soda.”

There are many other methods of determining the per-
centage of real alkali in the commercial products than
those referred to, but to enter into this subject more fully
would involve more space than the limits of this work
would permit. Since, moreover, soap-makers are now
supplied with caustic soda, as also caustic potash, the
necessity for testing soda and potashes is’ greatly
diminished.

To determine the percentage of real or anhydrous
alkali in a sample of caustic soda or potash, M. Barres-
will recommends the following method: “A solution of
chloride of barium is added in excess to a solution of the
sample under examination, and the whole is filtered; the
precipitate of carbonate of baryta left on the filter is
washed with a little water, and the filtrate and the wash-
ings placed in a deep glass tube; a stream of carbonic
acid gas is then passed through the mixed liquor until it
ceases to occasion a precipitate of carbonate of baryta.
This last precipitate is separated on a filter, washed, dried,
and weighed. Each grain represents ‘315 grains of real
or anhydrous soda; or 477 grains of anhydrous potassa.””
