CAUSTIC LEYS, 33

used for lixiviation instead of water. The lime vat No. 4,
when exhausted, is emptied out of the window near which it
stands, in which case the water is poured upon the contents
of No. 3, and the weakest ley upon No. 2. No. 1 is now
avangaire to No. 4, because this has become in its turn the
Fresh vat, into which the fresh soda and quicklime are put.
The ley discharged from No. 3 comes in this case upon
No. 2, and after being run through it, is thrown upon
No. 1.

In some large factories the ley tanks are placed in a
building apart from the soapery, and from thence the ley
is pumped into tanks situated near the soap-pans, a very
cleanly and convenient arrangement.

Method of Preparing the Leys.—This operation is thus
directed by Messrs. Charles Tennant and Co., the exten-
sive alkali manufacturers of St. Rollox, Glasgow: ‘A layer
of fresh burnt limé, say five measures of 112 lbs. each,
is to be laid equally over the bottom of the vat, and a
few gallons of water to be thrown upon the lime, until it
begins to slake or fall. This layer is then to be covered
immediately with 6 cwt. of soda ash, the next layer with
four measures of lime slaked as before, the fourth layer
with the same quantity of soda ash, the fifth layer with
lime as before, and the last layer with the same quantity
of alkali.

“ After standing two hours, the vat is to bestanched by
filling it with water or weak ley ofa former vat; this is to
be done gradually. After standing about fifteen or six-
teen hours, the plug is to be gently loosened, so as to allow
the ley to run off or trickle clear,and caustic after infiltra-
tion through the beds of lime. This is called the first
runnings. As soon as the ley ceases to run, the plug is to
be tightened, and the vat again filled with water, and after
standing a sufficient time, to be run down asbefore. This
is the second runnings, and worked together with the first
runnings in the soap-pan is an excellent ley, and works
freer and better than if used separately. After the vat is
run dry, it is to be turned over into another vat, covered
with water, and again run down. This ley is very weak,

D
