SOFT TOILET SOAPS. 167

directions for making a white soft toilet soap:—Melt in
a sheet-iron kettle, of a capacity of about .50, gallons,
50 lbs. of white fat and 13 lbs. of cocoa-oil. When the
fatty matters are entirely melted, add 50 lbs. of potash
ley at 20° or 21°B. Stir all the time, so. as to aid the
saponification, the temperature being kept at from 140° to
150° F. Under the influence of heat and stirring the
aqueous part of the ley evaporates and the mixture
acquires a thicker consistency. Sometimes it happens
that a part of the fatty matter separates. This is produced
especially where the température of the mixture is raised
near the boiling-point, because at that temperature con-
centrated leys have little affinity for fatty substances.
This effect may also be produced by the insufficiency of
alkali in the mixture.s In the first case the homogeneity
is re-established by moderating the action of the heat, and
in the other by pouring into the kettle a portion of strong
ley necessary to complete the saponification. The first
stage of the operation lasts about four hours. To obtain a
perfect soap, add 10 Ibs. of potash ley at 16° B., and be
careful to keep the mixture very uniform by continual
stirring. Keep the temperature below the boiling-point,
and as much as possible between 140° and 150° F.

The saponification is finished when the paste has acquired
a very thick consistency. At this point turn off the steam.

Many perfumers prepare this soap in iron kettles with
a double bottom, heated by steam ; some use silver kettles,
which are preferable, because in them the soap will retain
its whiteness. The engraving Fig. 26 répresents a jacket
or kettle with a double bottom, heated by steam. This
kettle is of tinned copper, and may be ‘also used to purify
tallow and greases. The operation lasts in all from seven to
eight hours. When the soap is éntirely cooled down, pour
it into large stone jars, in which it is kept for use. Soft
soap, as obtained by the saponification ‘of fatty matters by
potash, has not that bright nacreous (pearly) appearance
required for the toilet. To obtain it in this state it is
ground in a marble mortar and aromatised with oil of
bitter almonds. /

/
