PUBLISHED BY CROSBY LOCKWOOD & CO. 23

The Alkali Trade—Sulphuric Acid, &c.

A MANUAL OF THE ALKALI TRADE, including the
Manufacture of Sulphuric Acid, Sulphate of Soda, and Bleaching
Powder. By Joun Lomas, Alkali Manufacturer. With 232 Illus-
trations and Working Drawings, and containing 386 pages of text.
Super-royal 8vo, 2/. 125, 6d. cloth.

This work provides (x) a Complete Handbook for intending Alkali and Sulphuric
Acid Manufacturers, and for those already in the field who desire to improve their
Blab, or to become practically acquainted with the latest processes and developments
of the trade ; (2) a Handy Volume which Manufacturers can put into the hands of
their Managers and Foremen as a useful guide in their daily rounds of duty.

 

Synopsis or ConTENTS. 7

Chap. I. Choice of Site and General | IX. Carbonating or Finishing—X. Soda
Plan of Works—II. Sulphuric Acid—| Crystals — XI. fined Alkali — XII.
mW, of the Nitrogen Com-]| Caustic Soda — XIII. Bi-carbonate of
pounds, and Treatment of Small Pyrites | Soda— XIV. Bleaching Powder — XV.
—IV. The Salt Cake Proceéss—V. is- | Utilisation of Tank Waste—XVI. General
lation, upon the, Noxious Vapours Ques: | Remarks—Four A endices, treating of
tion—VI. The ‘Hargreaves’ and Jones’ | Yields, Sulphuric Acid Calculations, Ane-
Processes—VII, The Baling Process— | mometers, and Foreign Hegislation upon
VIII. Lixiviation and Salting Down—| the Noxious Vapours Question.

“The author has given the fullest, most practical, and, to all concerned in the
alkali trade, most valuable mass of information that, to our knowledge, has been
published in any language.” Engineer, .

“This book is written by a manufacturer for manufacturers, The working details

of the most approved forms of apparatus are given, and these are accompanied by
no less than 232 wood engravings, all of which may be used for the purposes ‘of con-
struction. Every step im the manufacture is very fully described in this manual, and
each improvement explained. Everything which tends to introduce economy into
the technical details of this trade receives the fullest attention.” —A thenaum.
“©The author is not one of those clever compilers who, on short notice, will ‘read
up’ any conceivable subject, but a practical man in the best sense of the word. We
find here not merely a sound and luminous explanation of the chemical principles of
the trade, but a notice of numerous matters which have a most important bearing
on the successful conduct of alkali works, but which are generally overlooked hy
even the most experienced technological authors."—Chemical Review.

Soap-making.
THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING,'A Practical Handbook of the
Manufacture of Hard and Soft Soaps, Toilet Soaps, &c. Including
Descriptions of many New Processes and a Chapter on the Recovery
of Glycerine from Waste Leys. By ALEXANDER Watt, Author
of “ Electro-Metallurgy Practically Treated,” &c.
[Nearly ready.

Chemical Analysis.
THE COMMERCIAL HANDBOOK of CHEMICAL ANA-
LYSIS ; or Practical Instructions for the determination of the In-
trinsic or Commercial Value of Substances used in Manufactures,
in Trades, and in the Arts. By A. Normanby. Mew Edition.
Enlarged, and to a great extent re-written, by HENRY M. Noap,
Ph. D., F.R.S. With numerous Illustrations, Cr, 8vo, 125.62. cloth.

“We recommend this book to the careful perusal of every one; it may be truly
affirmed to be of universal interest, and we strongly recommend it as a guide, alike
‘ndispensable to the housewife as to the pharmaceutical practitioner.”— Medical Times.
«€ Essential to the analysts appointed under the new Act. The most recent results
are given, and the work is well edited and carefully written.” —Wagure,
