MANUFACTURE OF TOILET OR FANCY SOAPS. 163

Marbled Savonnettes.—These may be formed as fol-
lows:—For red, cut white curd soap into small squares,
and roll these in powdered dole or rouge, then press them
strongly with the hands into balls, taking care to mix the
colour as little as possible. For due, roll the pieces of
soap in powder blue, and then treat them as above. For
green, roll the cakes of soap in a mixture of yellow ochre
and powder blue. By varying the colour of the powder
savonnettes of any shade or colour may be produced.

A very pleasing and real marbled appearance may be
given to soaps in this way: Melt in one vessel any
required quantity of white curd soap, adding a little water.
When thoroughly melted put a small quantity of the
soap in a separate vessel, previously warmed, and add to
it a sufficient quantity of ultramarine, vermilion, or any
other colour (previously mixed with a little water), to
stain the soap. Now add the coloured to the white soap,
and stir round and round in one direction only until the
coloured soap has formed a series of circular veins in the
mass. Care must be taken to do this slowly, so that the
coloured soap may merely streak the white soap. Allow
the soap to cool, when it may be scooped out in small
lumps with a half-round and bright trowel, and these
marbled lumps may then be fashioned into balls or
‘ tablets according to requirement. If preferred, the
marbled soap may be carefully put into a frame while
hot, but this must be done cautiously, so as not to mix the
colour with the white ground. The required perfumes
should be added to the white soap before the coloured
soap is introduced. .

Savonnettes au Miel (Honey Savonnettes).

   

  

White curd soap (melted) ..............ce cece ee Ib.
Honey...... ccc cece eens o ne
Essential oil of any kind ret 2 ozs.
Rose-Water ..scccseceeteceeeenes 25

 

Add the honey to the melted soap, then add the rose-
water, and lastly the perfume.

Floating Savonnettes may be made by adding a little
water to any of the perfumed soaps in a melted state, and
