64 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

effect the separation. After repose for five or six hours,
the ley is drawn off.

Boiling.—The ley being drawn off, pour into the kettle
75 gallons of new caustic ley at 24° or 25° B. and apply
heat. When the boiling begins, considerable foaming
appears upon the surface of the soap, which disperses only
when the soap is entirely boiled. If after five or six
hours’ continuous boiling the ley is still caustic, it must be
kept up until all the foam disappears. If, on the other
hand, the ley has lost all its causticity, 75 gallons of new
ley at 30° B. are to be added, and the boil kept up for four
or five hours longer.

The operation being finished, the soap is in the form of
very hard white grains, which, when pressed between the
fingers, are reduced to scales. The steam is now to be
turned off, and the mass allowed to rest for four or five
hours, after which the ley is drawn off, the quantity of
which will be about 50 or 60 gallons, and of a strength
equal to 27° or 28° B.

Fitting is effected by running into the pan 58 gallons of
water, and heating. to the boiling-point, with constant
stirring. When the grains of soap are well melted, and
have the appearance of flat particles separated from the ley,
the operation is finished. It is known that the soap is
separated from the ley when by taking it up with the
shovel the ley runs off in a colourless stream. The steam
is now turned off, or the fire drawn, and the pan is well
covered, after which the whole is allowed to rest for seven
or eight hours. At the end of this period the pan is
uncovered, and the ley drawn off. The soap is then ready
to receive its admixture of resinous soap, which is prepared, .
as follows :— ; :

Preparation of Resin Soap.—Put into a pan, capable of
holding about 375 gallons, 75 gallons of fresh soda ley at
30° B. Apply gentle heat, and when the ley begins to
boil throw in, every five or six minutes (about 15 to
20 Ibs. at a time), 1,200 lbs. of resin, previously reduced
to a fine powder and passed through a coarse sieve. The
mixture must be well stirred during the whole time to
