24 WORKS IN SCIENCE AND ART, ETC.,

Dr. Lardner’s Museum of Science and Art.

THE MUSEUM OF SCIENCE AND ART. Edited by
Dionysius LARDNER, D.C.L., formerly Professor of Natural Phi-
losophy and Astronomy in University College, London. With up-
wards of 1200 Engravings on Wood. In 6 Double Volumes.
Price £1 15., in anew elegant cloth binding, or handsomely
bound in half morocco, 315, 6d.

 

OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.

“This series, besides affording popular but sound instruction on scientific subjects,
with which the humblest man {n the country ought to be acquainted, also undertakes
that teaching of ‘common things’ which every wellwisher of his kind is anxious to
promote. Many thousand copies of this serviceable publication have been printed,
in the belief and hope that the desire for instruction and improvement widely pre-
vails; and we have no fear that such enlightened faith will meet with disappoint-
ment,”—Times. . - . .

“A cheap and nteresting publication, alike informing and attractive. The papers
combine subjects of importance and great scientific knowledge, considerable induc-
tive powers, and a popular style of treatment.”—Sgectator.

a ‘Museum of Science and Art’ is the most valuable contribution that has
ever been made to the Scientific Instruction of every class of society."—Sir David
Brewster in the North British Review,

‘Whether we consider the liberality and beauty of the illustrations, the charm of
the writing, or the durable interest of the matter, we must express our belief that
there is hardly to be found among the new books, one that would be welcomed by
people of so many ages and classes as a valuable present.” —Z.aminer.

“* Separate books formed from the above, suitable for Workmen's
Libraries, Science Classes, &t.

COMMON THINGS EXPLAINED. Containing Air, Earth, Fire,
Water, Time, Man, the Eye, Locomotion, Colour, Clocks and
Watches, &c. 233 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 5s.

THE MICROSCOPE. Containing Optical Images, Magnifying
Glasses, Origin and Description of the Microscope, Microscopic
Objects, the Solar Microscope, Microscopic Drawing and Engrav-
ing, &c, 147 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 2s,

POPULAR GEOLOGY. Containing Earthquakes and Volcanoes,
the Crust of the Earth, etc. 201 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.

POPULAR PHYSICS. Containing Magnitude and Minuteness, the
Atmosphere, Meteoric Stones, Popular Fallacies, Weather Prog-
nostics, the Thermometer, the Barometer, Sound, &c, 85 Illus-
trations, cloth gilt, 25. 6d,

STEAM AND ITS USES. Including the Steam Engine, the Lo-
comotive, and Steam Navigation. Illustrations, cloth gilt, 2s,

POPULAR ASTRONOMY. Containing How to Observe the
Heavens, The Earth, Sun, Moon, Planets. Light, Comets,
Eclipses, Astronomical Influences, &c, 182 Illustrations, qs. 62,

THE BEE AND WHITE ANTS: Their Manners and Habits,
With Illustrations of Animal Instinct and Intelligence. 135 Ilus-
trations, cloth gilt, 25.

THE ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH POPULARISED. To render
intelligible to all who can Read, irrespective of any previous Scien-
tific Acquirements, the various forms of Telegraphy in Actual
Operation, 100 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 1s. 6d,
