SAPONIFICATION EXPLAINED. 9

stain. This is proof that the conversion of the fatty sub-
stances into stearate and palmitate of soda is complete—
that the mass is saponified, in fact. If the boiling has been
sufficient, and an excess of caustic alkali remains in the
ley, this will subside, and the soap, after being allowed to
repose for a short time, will appear on the surface. Ix
now a small portion be treated with warm alcohol, it will
readily and entirely dissolve, forming a transparent solu-
tion of soap. After expelling the aleohol by evaporation,
the transparent soap will remain, which on cooling will
assume considerable hardness.

In saponifying the various fatty matters employed at
the present time in soap manufacture, and which differ
greatly in their composition, much care is exercised as to
the strength of alkaline ley used in the first and subsequent
operations of boiling. If the ley be too strong, its
superior density will retard its free diffusion through the
mass of fatty matter. It is commonly the practice, there-
fore, with tallow soaps, to apply caustic ley of a moderate
strength at first, and when this has become exhausted or
“spent,” as it is termed, it is pumped out of the copper or
pan, and a fresh charge of ley of superior strength given,
and the boiling continued until the grease or fat is
“ killed ” or neutralised by the alkali. During the boiling
glycerine is liberated, and this substance, being soluble in
water, subsides with the ley. Until recently, the exhausted
leys were allowed to flow away as a waste product; at the
present time, however, the glycerine is usually recovered
by one or other of the various processes fully described in
Chapter XXVI. .

It is well known that caustic ley acts differently upon
the various fatty bodies with which it comes in contact.
For example, a weak ley will act upon tallow until its
alkali becomes exhausted, or nearly so; whereas a ley of
equal strength will scarcely, if at all, saponify cocoa-nut
oil, When, however, cocoa-nut oil is blended with other
fatty substances, it will readily become acted upon by
weak leys. Again, resin, although it is readily converted
