98 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

soap deficient in hardness, through poorness of the mate-
rials of which it is composed, crystallises throughout the
mass, and thereby gives it an artificial hardness, which
prevents it from washing away too freely in the hands of
the laundress. Indeed, soap may be rendered so hard by
employing large quantities of -this salt, as to resist the
strongest pressure of the thumb. When it is employed
in excess, however, it is very liable to effloresce on the
surface of the soap, rendering it not only unsightly but, to
some extent, unsalable.

‘Silicated Soaps: Sheridan’s Process—Of all the
numerous cheapening substances which have been intro-
duced into pure soaps, the silicate of soda, or soluble. glass
may be deemed the most important, since it not only
favours the introduction of a large percentage of water.in
certain kinds of soap, but it also possesses in itself a high
detergent property. The merit of applying silicate of
soda to soap is due to Mr. Sheridan, who obtained a patent
for his process as far back as the year 1835, at which
period, however, owing to the then existing excise laws,
it could not receive that extensive adoption which has
fallen to the lot of subsequent processes based upon his
original and most ingenious invention.

Although the silicate of soda, or soluble glass, is now
an extensively-manufactured article of commerce, and
forms a necessary item in the long list of soap materials,
it may be interesting if we give a brief outline of Sheri-
dan’s original process. He first formed a “detergent
mixture,” by boiling caleined quartz or flint (previously
ground to an almost impalpable powder) or sand, with
strong caustic soda, or cauigtic potash leys; the pro-
“portions being one part by measure of ground calcined
flint or quartz to two parts of either caustic alkali, mark-
ing 28° B. These were boiled together for about eight
hours, with continual stirring, until they became a
“homogeneous mass, having the appearance of saponi-
fied matter ” [a viscous condition]. When in this state it
was ready to be mixed with soap, which was done by
introducing the “detergent mixture,” as Sheridan called
