MANUFACTURE OF SOFT SOAPS. 133

quantity of cold soap to reduce the temperature of the
mass,

London “Crown Soap” of the best quality is made from
tallow, lard, and olive-oil, and the caustic potash leys are
generally employed in two different degrees of strength,
the weakest from 8°, and the strongest from 25° to 30° B.
The proportions of materials employed for 18 barrels of
soap are: tallow and lard 52 lbs. each, and olive-oil 70
gallons. About 400 gallons of ley being prepared, a third
of this quantity is first put into the pan, when the tallow
and lard are added and the steam turned on; when the
fats are melted the olive-oil is run in, and the boiling con-
tinued gently, after which the mass is allowed to rest for
about two hours, when the steam is again turned on, and
about 20 gallons more ley added, and the mass again
brought to a boil. Additional quantities of ley are added
from time to time until the frothing, at first excessive,
begins to moderate, and eventually subsides, and the boil-
ing is continued until samples taken from the pan exhibit
the proper consistence. If the sample tried by the trowel
is stringy, more ley must be added; but if it appears
whitish and clotted, this shows an excess of ley, when a
moderate quantity of oil must be added. Towards the
end of the operation brisk boiling should be given, and
finally moderated; and repeated samples should be taken
until the soap is found to be perfected.

A second quality of Crown Soap is made from tallow
286 lbs., sperm-oil 80 gallons, and caustic potash ley 135
gallons. 94 gallons of the ley and the tallow are first put
into the pan, and the steam turned on; and when the
tallow is melted the oil is to be introduced, after which
the steam is to be turned off and the contents of the pan
allowed to rest for about two hours. At the end of this
time the steam is again turned on, and 19 gallons of ley
added, and the whole brought to a boil, the heat being
continued until the soap appears to be about half made.
9 gallons of ley are then added, with renewed boiling,
and finally the remaining 9 gallons of ley are introduced,
and, the boiling continued until the scap is complete.
