MAKING SOAP BY THE COLD PROCESS. 81

which arms, ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢, may radiate, when a rotary motion will
thoroughly incorporate the fatty matter and the ley.

«The size of the cylinder, for about 24 tons of tallow,
will be about 6 feet in diameter and 12 feet in length.
It must be provided with convenient doors, Dp, for charg-
-ing and emptying. Motion being communicated to the
machine, and the caldron having been previously charged
with the tallow, the ley is to be gradually added thereto,
and in a short time every particle of the fatty matter will
be brought into intimate contact with the alkaline ley,
and by such means saponification will take place. The
stirring is continued for about three hours, or until the
tallow appears completely saponified, as is indicated by
the mass thickening, after which it is allowed to stand from
one to four days, according to the quantity of the paste.

“ Should a cylinder be used, then immediately upon its
being charged with tallow, ata temperature just high
enough to keep it fluid, the ley is run in, and motion com-
municated to thejshaft, and continued from 3 to 4 hours,
or less time, if the mass becomes thick sooner. As the
benefit of this prbcess arises mainly from the saponification
of the ordinary materials in a comparatively cold state, it
is desirable, as soon as the mass thickens, and the ley is
absorbed, that tne cylinder should be emptied, and the
contents turned into an ordinary caldron, preparatory to
being finished and converted into yellow soap, by the
addition of resin; or into mottled soap or white soap, by
the operation of finishing leys, as at present practised by
soap-boilers generally. By this transfer from the cylinder
to the ordinary caldron, time is allowed for the combina-
tion of the tallow and alkali to become perfect.”

The adoption of the cold process in this country has
not, we believe, extended much beyond the limits of very
small operations, such as toilet-soap making, for example.
Indeed, the difficulty of obtaining leys sufficiently con-
centrated, without evaporation, would, to some extent,
stand in the way of its extended application. At the
present time, however, when soap-makers are supplied
with caustic soda in a solid state, which renders it

G
