PURIFYING AND BLEACHING OILS AND FATS. 213

1 per cent. of the chloride and 14 per cent. of sulphuric
acid diluted with twenty times its weight of water are
about the right proportions. The oil is first gently heated,
the chloride of lime is then added and well stirred in, after
which the dilute acid is introduced, and the agitation kept
up until a sample exhibits a satisfactory appearance.
Steam is then blown in or hot water applied to thoroughly
wash the oil, when it is allowed to rest for some hours.
The clear oil is then run off into a proper receptacle.

Solutions of tan, or tannic acid, followed by chloride of
lime and dilute sulphuric acid have also been used in
purifying fish oils.

Dunn’s Method.—Mr. Dunn purified these oils by heat-
ing them with steam to a temperature of from 180° to
200° F., and then forcing a stream of hot air through the
oil, after which the oil was washed by steam or hot water
and afterwards filtered. A strong solution of common
salt, or a mixture of salt and sulphate of copper (both in
solution), and the whole well agitated for some time, is
another method of purifying fish oil which has been
frequently adopted. ‘The oil is afterwards filtered through
= charcoal, or is allowed to clarify by resting for a few

ours. '

Palm and other oils frequently contain foreign matter
the presence of which is likely to retard the chemical
action of the bleaching agent; it is better, therefore, to
remove these impurities by first heating the oil and then
allowing it to rest for several hours, so that these matters
may subside.

Justice’s method of purifying and bleaching oils and
fats consists in mixing with these substances, while in
a melted state, pulverised dry fuller’s-earth, and then
separating the earth from the oil or fat by allowing it to
subside. The fatty matter to be purified is placed in any
vessel suited to the purpose, and is heated until it is
perfectly liquid. The temperature required of course
varies with the different kinds of oil or fat, but it is simply
sufficient that the material to be treated be brought to the
liquid state. When the fat is thoroughly melted a quantity
