MANUFACTURE OF HARD SOAPS, $5

by extinguishing the fire, so as to allow any impurities
still in the mass to settle.

‘When the ley has been removed from the pan, 700 Ibs.
or 800 lbs. of water, with 70 Ibs. or 80 Ibs. of salt dissolved.
in it, are now added, and the mass again brought to
a boil. After boiling up, it should be examined to see
that the “cutting of the pan” has been properly effected.
The boiling is then continued for some time, after which
the mass is allowed to repose as before, and the saline ley
again drawn off. Although the second liquor and boiling
have greatly hardened the soap, yet this is not sufficient ;
therefore a third boiling, with 50 Ibs. to 60 Ibs. of salt
dissolved in 700 Ibs. to 800 Ibs. of water, is made, by
which the hardness of the soap is perfected. As soon as
it boils and froths up, the soap must be again examined
to ascertain if the proportions of salt and ley have been
sufficient. If enough salt has not been added, froth
appears on the surface of the boiling soap, and the latter
burns readily. In this case more salt must be added,
until it boils up in regular lumps of soap. If too much
salt be present, the soap appears upon the spatula [trowel]
in a separated form, the ley running off, and little gutters
formed. This fault is remedied by adding a few buckets
of water. If a little portion of the soap be pressed by
the thumb in the palm of the hand, it hardens imme-
diately ; and if, on rubbing it, the sample retains a cohesive
character, it possesses the required firmness, and is solid ;
if, on the other hand, it crumbles, more water must be
added, and if the sample spreads or smears, a fresh ley of
salt of 15° B. must be added until the proper condition, is
reached.

The operation of clear boiling and fitting is next pur-
sued, to perform which one-half of the kettle is covered
with wooden planks, and a man, furnished with a stirrer
or beater, beats down the mass, so that it does not run
over. By this operation the soap particles are drawn
more closely together into globular grains. These grains
sink, and on the surface of the kettle appears a white
flaky froth. To prevent the falling of the mass, great
