88 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING.

portion to form soda crystals, namely—62°80 per cent., or,
say, 1 gallon of water for every 5 lbs. of ash. This quan-
tity of alkali forms a neutral soap; for stronger soaps,
from 210 to 225 lbs. of ash are used. The solution of
soda must mark 212° F. before being added to the hot
material in the pan, and only from six to twelve minutes’
time allowed to run in the whole of the liquor. The
stirrer is then set in motion a minute or less after the alkali
begins to flow, and is kept up, with the heating, until the
process is complete. The brisk chemical action which is
set up causes a great swelling of the mass, to allow for
which a curb is fixed above the pan. Soon after the last
portion of alkali has been run in, the mass begins to sub-
side, and “changes from its spongy state into that of a
clear, soft, homogeneous paste, which soon assumes a bril-
liant appearance. Later it becomes more consistent ; and
in an hour and fifteen to thirty minutes from the moment
that the alkali commenced to fall into the oil, the paste
is so stiff and dry that it ‘cuts,’ or peels from the walls
of the pan and ‘the blades of the stirrer.” The paste is
now sprinkled over with eight or ten gallons of boiling
water, the stirring and heating being continued, until the
paste, at first quite soft, regains its stiffness. Soap thus
made consists of in 100 parts: oleic acid, 65°00 ; soda, 6°7
to 7:50; water, 27°50.

Instead of employing a solution of soda ash, Mr. Morfit
sometimes uses soda crystals, fused in their own water of
crystallisation ; and since this salt of soda has attained a
remarkably low price, it would, doubtless, in this country
at least, prove the most facile, as also the most economical,
form of soda to apply to this system of saponification.

Oleic acid is extensively used by soap-makers in the
ordinary processes of soap-making; but it is generally
associated with a considerable portion of tallow or other
fat containing stearine, by which a firmer and harder soap
is obtained than with oleic acid alone. From 380 to 40
per cent. of tallow is a fair proportion.

To make soap from oleic acid and tallow, the pro-
portions may be—oleic acid, 1,350 lbs. ; tallow, 900 lbs.
