146 THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING,

should be slowly poured into the pan, with stirring, until
the requisite proportion has been added. The soap being
perfumed and coloured, small samples should be taken to
determine if it be of the proper consistence to set hard
and firm without being brittle. It is now ready for the
frames, which, for scented soaps, are much smaller than
those employed for household soaps.

The condition of the soap when ready for the frames is
that of a thick pasty mass, and must be transferred to the
frames by means of the short-handled ladle (Fig. 30), or
swimmer (Fig. 12); and when the frame is full the soap
should be pressed or patted down, so as to prevent any
hollows or cavities bemg formed through the irregular
distribution of the soap in the frame. The soap should
also be well covered with cloths, so that the cooling may
be very gradual.

Cutting the Soap.—When the soap is sufficiently cold
it is cut into slabs and bars proportionate to the size re-
quired for the tablets, which generally run eight, six, four,
or two to the pound. The bars are next divided into cakes
or blocks, the width of which is regulated according to
the size and weight of the tablets.

Stamping the Soap.—As the tablets of toilet soaps are
generally of an oblong form, with rounded corners, the
cakes which have been cut from the bars require to be
trimmed before they undergo the process of stamping.
This is generally done as follows : A workman, taking a
cake in his hand, passes each sharp edge of the cake over
the blade of a planing-machine, such as is shown in Fig. 28,
the blade of the machine being so adjusted as to remove
only a small portion trom the edges. The corners are next
trimmed with a knife, and each cake is weighed from time
to time during the trimming, until it approaches the
required weight for the tablet.

‘he cakes thus prepared are next put aside to dry, or
are placed in a drying-room, so that the surface may be
free from stickiness before they are stamped. The cakes,
after being trimmed and dried as described, are first
moulded in a lever press (Fig. 31), which gives them the
