MANUFACTURE OF TOILET OR FANCY SOAPS. 15%

Or, for the same quantity of soap
Oil of caraway ..

» bergamot...
Oils of lavender and rosemary, of each

Brown Windsor Soap is prepared as above, and coloured
either with burnt sugar (caramel) or umber.

In making this soap some perfumers have adopted a
system of making what is called an instantanéous soup.
This consists in saponifying the fatty matter, which is
generally a mixture of hog’s lard and tallow, with strong
ley. Twenty parts of the fatty matters are taken, to which
is added ten parts by weight of caustic soda ley at 36° B.,
and these being put into a small jacket-pan, steam heat is
applied until the mass assumes a fluid condition, when five
parts more ley are introduced, with constant stirring for
an hour or so. At the end of this time an additional five
parts of ley are given, and the agitation continued, the
heat of the mass not being allowed to exceed 150° F.
When the ley has deposited, and the paste become perfectly
homogeneous and of the proper consistence, it is trans~
ferred to another pan, and the perfumes are then added,
after which the soap is ladled into the frame. In about

_twenty-four hours or less the soap will be ceol enough to
et. It must not be allowed to remain until quite cold, or
it w:ll become too hard for cutting. These instantaneous
soaps are best made direct from the fatty acids, with car-
ponatejzif soda, as recommended by Mr. Morfit.

Win, or Soap is also made from lard in the same way
as olix -oil soap, and the perfumes—oils of caraway,
lavend&®, and rosemary—are added so soon as the soap has
acquired the proper degree of firmness.

Violet Windsor Soap is made from lard, 50 parts;
palm-oil, 33 parts; and spermaceti, 17 parts ; and the per-
fume employed is essence of Portugal, to which a little
oil of cloves is added. The well-known violet odour of the
palm.oil, modified by the perfumes, gives an agreeable
fragrance to the soap.

Powdered cassia is a useful substance for giving an
agreeable brown colour to toilet soap, but it must be added

 
  
 
