ALKALIMETRY. igt

pressure of the fingers, and which costs almost nothing.
It consists of a small piece of vulcanised india-rubber
tube, which is closed by a clamp of brass wire (Fig. 34).
The ends of this clamp, which I call a pressure-cock, are
bent laterally at right angles in opposite directions, and
furnished with knobs, so that when both ends are pressed
the clamp is opened, and a single drop or a continuous
current of liquid may be allowed to escape at pleasure.
The measuring tube is a straight glass cylinder 3, as
uniform as possible, graduated into 0°2 or 0:1 cubic centi-
metres, and somewhat contracted at its lower end, so as to
fit into the india-rubber tube. A small piece of glass tube,
inserted below the pressure-cock, forms the spout. The
pressure-cock has the advantage of not leaking, for it
closes of itself when the pressure of the fingers is
removed.

“The measure furnished with the pressure-cock is
fastened upon an appropriate stand, which can be placed.
at any required height. When used, it is filled above
the zero point with test-liquor, the cock opened for an
instant, so as to let the air escape from the spout, and the
level of the solution is then adjusted. This is done by
bringing the eye level with the zero point, and applying
a gentle pressure to the cock until the liquid has sunk
so low that the inferior curve of the liquid touches the
graduation like the circle of a tangent; the cock is then
closed, and at the same moment the liquid remains at
zero, and continues to do so for weeks, if evaporation is
prevented. The test measure being now normally filled,
the experiment may be commenced ; this is done sitting,
while the filling of the measure is done standing.

“The weighed sample of alkali is first placed in a
‘beaker’ glass, and the test-liquor is allowed to flow
into it by gently pressing the cock. Both hands are set
at liberty, for when the pressure-cock is released it closes
of itself. The volumetric operation may be interrupted at
pleasure, in order to heat the liquid, shake it, or do what-
ever else may be required. The quantity of liquid used
may be read off at any moment, and in repeating an ex-
