CHEAPENED SOAPS, 99

it, a pailful at a time, with constant stirring, until the
desired quantity had been incorporated with the finished
soap. The silicate solution must be as nearly as possible
at the same temperature as the soap, and the mixture
effected by the ordinary method. of crutching.

Respecting the proportions of silicate of soda which may
be added to soap, Sheridan says, “I find that in curd soap
equal quantities, by weight, of each will answer best; in
yellow soap about one-tenth more of the detergent. mixture
may be used.” He, however, recommends small sample
batches, in varying proportions of soap and silicate, to be
made to guide the soap-boiler as to the relative quantities of
each which may be blended judiciously to form the quality
of soap he may wish to produce.. He recommended mixing
the soap and silicate of soda in a small pan capable of
holding about half a ton, and from this it was transferred
to an ordinary frame.

The same invention related to the manufacture of soft
soaps, for which the silicate of potash, before referred to,
was applied, and which will be considered under the head
of Soft, or Potash Soaps. :

Gossage’s Processes.—Nearly twenty years after the
publication of Sheridan’s process, Mr. Gossage, of Widnes,
obtained a patent, namely, in 1854, which bears a close
resemblance to Sheridan’s, except in the method of pre-
paring the silicates of soda and potash. In the patent
referred to Gossage says, “The object of my invention is
to provide a soluble compound for.mixing with true soap,
which compound shall possess in itself chemically deter-
gent properties, and be obtained at a low cost, thereby
enabling me to produce a compound soap the cost of which
is greatly reduced, but possessing valuable detergent pro-
perties, independently of the true soap contained in such
compound. When silica is combined with soda or potash
in such proportions that ;the alkaline matter present is
about double the quantity usually contained in glass, a
compound is obtained which is known to chemists as
‘soluble glass,’ and when a solution of this compound is
prepared, by boiling it with water, and this solution
