ALKALIMETRY., 189

To our own countryman, Dr. Andrew Ure, however, we
are indebted for the employment of a test-acid that repre-
sents the absolute amount of alkali in a given commercial
sample of soda or potash, whether in the form of carbonate
or of caustic alka. To understand the methods of deter-
mining the percentage of real alkali in a commercial
sample if may be necessary to refer briefly to the laws of
chemical combination defined by the atomic theory of
Dr. Dalton. This great chemist discovered that all sub-
stances combine in definite proportions or equivalents ; for
example, 1 part by weight of hydrogen combines with
8 parts of oxygen to form water. The equivalent number
of hydrogen, therefore, is 1, that of oxygen 8, and that of
water 9. Again, 3 equivalents of oxygen combine with
1 equivalent of sulphur (16) to form sulphuric acid, thus:
sulphur 16, oxygen 24, equals anhydrous sulphuric acid 40,
or monohydrated acid (the strongest oil of vitriol) 49; there-
fore, 40 is the equivalent or combining number of this
acid, and it cannot be made to unite with alkalis or other
bases in any other proportion. For example, forty grains
by weight of pure sulphuric acid will neutralise exactly
58 grains of dried carbonate of soda, 31. grains of pure
anhydrous soda, or 40 grains of hydrate Ae soda (caustic
soda). This being so, it is only necessary to have exactly
40 grains of real sulphuric acid in 1,000 grains of water to
form a test-acid, which, when employed to neutralise an
alkaline solution, will show, by the proportion of dilute
acid used to saturate the alkali, the absolute percentage
present in the sample.

There are two principal methods of analyzing or
assaying alkalies by means of the test-acid, the first of
which is volumetric, or by measure; and the second
gravimetric, or by weight. In the former, the test-acid
or “standard solution” is applied by means of a glass
vessel termed an alkalimeter, or burette, which holds, up to
its 0 or zero mark, exactly 1,000 grains. The scale is
graduated into 100 divisions, which are again subdivided
into tenths. There are several forms of the burette or
alkalimeter, all more or less admirable for their ingenious
