CHEAPENED SOAPS. oF

to the requirements of the manufacturer, is briefly as
follows :—The soap being made in the ordinary way, and
transferred to the cleansing copper, sulphate of soda, in
the proportion of 20 lbs. for every 80 lbs. of soap, and 4 Ibs.
of carbonate of soda or of potash, or 2 lbs. of each, are
thrown into the hot soap, and the whole well stirred until
the mass is perfectly homogeneous, when the soap is ready
for framing in the usual way.

The sulphate of soda, and carbonate of soda or potash,
may be introduced in the liquid state (that is, fused in
their water of crystallisation). Supposing the quantity of
soap to be treated is 8 tons, the sulphate and carbonate of
soda are to be put into the “pot,” or lower part of the
cleansing-copper, in the proportion of 28 Ibs. of the former
and 4 Ibs. of the latter for every 80 Ibs. of soap, and then
allowed to fuse into a liquid state. The soap is then to
be run into the cleansing-copper with constant stirring,
while the soap is being transferred, until the mixture is
complete.

Sometimes it is desirable to dissolve the sulphate and
carbonate of soda in water, in which case, 3 cwt. of water,
2 ewt. of sulphate ‘of soda, and 1 ewt. of carbonate of
potash (or 4cwt. of each of the two latter) are put into
the cleansing-copper and dissolved by heat, as before;
after which the soap is transferred from the boiling-
copper, when 21 cwt. more of sulphate of soda and 3 cwt.
of carbonate of soda or potash are to be added (or half
this quantity), and the stirring continued as before until
a perfectly homogeneous mass results.

It is now commonly the practice to melt the crystals of
sulphate of soda (Glauber’s Salt), or carbonate of soda in
a steam-jacketed pan, and to ladle the liquid as required
into the melted soap, after it has been put into the frames,
when the union of the materials is completed by crutching
in the ordinary way; or the liquid salts are introduced by
means of the steam-crutch.

One of the most important advantages of the above
process—which, as we have said, is subject to many modi-
fications—is that the sulphate of soda, when mixed with

H
